

601 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: Fed President Who Resisted Its Rate Policy Is Retiring

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Thomas M. Hoenig, the longest serving of the Federal Reserve's 12 regional bank presidents, announced on Friday that he would retire on Oct. 1. 
Mr. Hoenig, who has headed the Fed's Kansas City regional bank since 1991, has opposed the Fed's efforts to stimulate the economy through an extended period of low interest rates and the purchase of billions of dollars in Treasury securities.
He dissented against those policies at all eight Fed meetings last year. He argued that the Fed's efforts to spur growth could kindle future inflation.
His departure had been expected because he will reach the mandatory retirement age for Fed bank presidents of 65 in September.
Mr. Hoenig was not joined in his opposition to the policies by other members of the Federal Open Market Committee, the panel of Fed board members and regional bank presidents who set monetary policy. This year, there have been no dissents. Mr. Hoenig does not have a vote on the F.O.M.C. this year.
Mr. Hoenig first joined the Kansas City Fed in 1973 as an economist in bank supervision and his time in that division included the banking crisis of the 1980s. He was involved with regulatory actions on nearly 350 banks that either failed or needed government assistance.
The Kansas City Fed has formed a search committee to select Mr. Hoenig's successor. The successful candidate will need the approval of the directors who serve on the Kansas City Fed's board. The search committee will be led by Terry Moore, president of the Omaha Federation of Labor, A.F.L.-C.I.O., who is also a member of the regional bank's board.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas M. Hoenig warned that inflation could increase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (77%); RETIREMENT AGE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); APPROVALS (69%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2011



602 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 26, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Valley Hiring Perks: Meals, iPads and a Cubicle for Spot

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER and JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Eric Firestone began a new job at a Web start-up here three weeks ago, and he's already thinking about what he might do next. But that's just fine with his new employer.
The company, a service to turn cellphones into credit card readers, lured Mr. Firestone from Apple partly with an unusual pitch: it promised to give him weekly lessons about starting his own business someday, including how to find venture capitalists to finance it.
Mr. Firestone, a 28-year-old software engineer, said he could try to get financing for a start-up from venture capital firms now, ''but I feel like I'd be having a hard time. Here you get to learn.''
Computer whiz kids have long been prize hires in Silicon Valley. But these days tech companies are dreaming up new perks and incentives as the industry wages its fiercest war for talent in more than a decade. 
Free meals, shuttle buses and stock options are de rigueur. So the game maker Zynga dangles free haircuts and iPads to recruits, who are also told that they can bring their dogs to work. Path, a photo-sharing site, moved its offices so it could offer sweeping views of the San Francisco Bay. At Instagram, another photo-sharing start-up, workers take personal food and drink orders from employees, fill them at Costco and keep the supplies on hand for lunches and snacks.
Then there are salaries. Google is paying computer science majors just out of college $90,000 to $105,000, as much as $20,000 more than it was paying a few months ago. That is so far above the industry average of $80,000 that start-ups cannot match Google salaries. Google declined to comment.
Two executives at a small start-up who spoke on the condition of anonymity said it recently lost an intern when one of the biggest start-ups offered the candidate a 40 percent bump in stock options, potentially worth hundreds of thousands of dollars -- but only if the candidate accepted the job before hanging up the phone.
''The atmosphere is brutally competitive,'' said Keith Rabois, a Silicon Valley veteran and chief operating officer at Square, where Mr. Firestone works. ''Recruiting in Silicon Valley is more competitive and intense and furious than college football recruiting of high school athletes.''
As the rest of the country fights stubbornly high unemployment, the shortage of qualified engineers has grown acute in the last six months, tech executives and recruiters say, as the flow of personal or venture capital investing has picked up. In Silicon Valley, along the southern portion of the San Francisco Bay in California, and other tech hubs like New York, Seattle and Austin, Tex., start-ups are sprouting by the dozen, competing with well-established companies for the best engineers, programmers and designers. At the same time, all the companies are seeking ever more specialized skills.
And there has been a psychological shift; many of the most talented engineers want to be the next Mark Zuckerberg, not work for him.
Shannon Callahan, who recruits engineers for the venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz's portfolio of companies, said a third of the engineers she called ask for financing to start their own companies instead.
''They have that entrepreneurial spirit and you want to talk to them because you know they'd do great in a small environment working a million hours a week, but those folks are saying, 'Actually, I think I want to do my own thing,' '' she said.
In an only-in-Silicon-Valley twist, start-ups are acknowledging this phenomenon by recruiting ambitious engineers with promises to help them to leave someday to start their own, potentially competitive companies.
''It's less about us competing against start-ups and more against the person who wants to start their own thing,'' said Dave Morin, co-founder and chief executive of Path. Mr. Morin, an early Facebook employee, knows the type because he was one of them. He tells recruits that he will help them start their own companies down the road, by advising or investing in them.
Redfin, an online real estate brokerage in Seattle, sets up one-on-one meetings between recruits and venture capitalists on its board to talk about starting their own companies, and runs twice-monthly classes on entrepreneurship -- a perk that Redfin says has helped attract and retain recruits.
''It helps people stay but also helps them to go,'' said Glenn Kelman, Redfin's chief executive.
At Square, the co-founder and chief executive, Jack Dorsey, who also co-founded Twitter, gives employees 20-minute lessons on topics like how to raise venture capital. Every employee can view Square's product plans and financials to learn about building a business.
Nationwide unemployment among computer scientists and programmers is higher than in other white-collar professions -- around 5 percent -- in part because many jobs have vanished overseas. But even with a glut of engineers on the job market, few have the skills that tech companies look for, said Cadir Lee, chief technology officer at Zynga.
Colleges rarely teach the newer programming languages like PHP, Ruby and Python, which have become more popular at young Web companies than older ones like Java, he said. Other skills, like working with large amounts of data and analytics, can be acquired only at a few companies.
''There are few programs that actually teach those things, and yet that's the primary people we hire,'' Mr. Lee said.
Tech recruiters have also expanded their searches. They still scout college campuses, particularly Stanford's computer science department, where this year it was common for seniors to receive half a dozen offers by the end of first quarter. But since college degrees are not mandatory, recruiters are also going to computer coding competitions and parties, in search of talent that is reminiscent of the dot-com mania.
The push to impress recruits was fully evident at the dozens of parties hosted by tech companies at the South by Southwest festival in Austin, Tex., this month, where start-ups tried to one-up each other with free beer, sushi, cocktails, ice sculptures, costumed acrobats and big-name bands and D.J.'s.
SimpleGeo, which makes tools for smartphones, was co-host at a dance party at the festival. Jay Adelson, chief executive of the company, explained that the festival was an ideal place to find talented engineers.
''The message being sent is that this is a cool, cool place to work,'' Mr. Adelson said. ''That matters when you are a young, hipster developer.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about stiff competition in the hiring of young software engineers misstated the academic calendar at Stanford University, whose computer science graduates are in particularly high demand. It is divided into quarters, not semesters. The article also misstated the relative ages of several programming languages. Java is roughly contemporaneous with PHP and Ruby; it is not older. Python predates those three languages by several years; it is not a ''newer'' programming language.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Keith Rabois, third from right, Eric Firestone, fourth from right, with engineers at Square. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Jeffery Kissinger and Danielle Trencher at a tech company recruiting party at the South by Southwest festival in Texas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (87%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ENGINEERING (75%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (75%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (70%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



603 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: The Enduring Afterglow

BYLINE: By GEORGE JOHNSON. 
George Johnson, a former reporter and editor at The Times, is author of ''The Ten Most Beautiful Experiments.'' He is writing a book about cancer.

 BODY:
Becquerels, sieverts, curies, roentgens, rads and rems. For all the esoteric nomenclature scientists have devised to parse the effects of nuclear emanations, the unit they so often fall back on is the old-fashioned chest X-ray.
Early in the crisis at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Japan, neighbors were informed with absurd precision that the radioactivity in a liter of their drinking water had risen to the equivalent of 1/88th of a chest X-ray. One day last week the air in Tokyo registered 0.155 of a microsievert an hour -- another chest X-ray, if you were confined for a month at that level. Though stretched to the point of meaninglessness, the analogy is meant to soothe -- balm for a spirit burdened by a century of living uneasily with radiation.
Measured by sheer fury, the magnitude 9.0 earthquake that damaged the reactors was mightier than millions of Hiroshima bombs. It shoved the northeastern coast of Japan eastward and unleashed a tsunami that wiped civilization from the coast. But explosive power comes and goes in an instant. It is something the brain can process. 
With radiation, the terror lies in the abstraction. It kills incrementally -- slowly, diffusely, invisibly. ''Afterheat,'' Robert Socolow, a Princeton University professor, called it in an essay for the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, ''the fire that you can't put out.''
Nuclear scientists speak in terms of half-life, the time it takes for random disintegrations to reduce a radioactive sample to half its size. Then a quarter, an eighth, a 16th -- whether measured in microseconds or eons, the mathematical progression never ends.
When traces of radioactive iodine were found last week in the drinking water in Tokyo, officials expressed the danger in becquerels, the number of nuclear disintegrations per second: 210 per liter, safe for adults but high enough to warn that infants should not drink it. As the government began distributing bottled water, the level fell significantly but not the fear. As far away as California there was a run on fallout detectors.
As these hypothetical microthreats ate at the mind, rescue workers were piling up real bodies -- 10,000 so far -- killed by crushing waves or their aftereffects, deaths caused by gravity, not nuclear forces. These dead will be tabulated, mourned and eventually forgotten. The toll will converge on a finite number.
In Chernobyl, the site of the world's previous big nuclear accident, the counting continues, like languid ticks from a Geiger counter. A United Nations study in 2005 concluded that about 50 people had been killed by the meltdown but that 4,000 would ultimately die from radiation-caused cancer -- victims who do not know who they are. The most debilitating effect, one investigator said, has been ''a paralyzing fatalism,'' a malaise brought on by an alien presence that almost seems alive.
Radiation, before we had a hand in it, was just another phenomenon. Life evolved unknowingly in its presence, with rays from the sky and earth jostling chromosomes and helping to shuffle the genetic deck. When our brains evolved to the point where we could measure and summon the effect, the first reaction was not fear but fascination. The discoverers were revered as heroes. Then their names were converted into mathematical units.
Conrad Roentgen produced the first artificial X-rays in 1895, tantalizing the world with see-through images of his wife's hand, then Henri Becquerel found similar emissions coming unbidden from uranium. Isolating the first minuscule specks of radium, Marie Curie, the greatest of the pioneers (1 curie = 37 gigabecquerels), marveled that its eerie blue glow ''looked like faint, fairy lights.'' She was seeing the optical equivalent of a sonic boom -- contrails of photons produced by speeding particles. Eager to see this new world for themselves, people purchased small brass eyepieces called spinthariscopes, named for the Greek word for spark. Mounted inside was a bit of radium bombarding a scintillating screen. Hold it to your eye and behold the tiny explosions. Spinthariscopes sat on parlor shelves next to stereoscopic postcard viewers and kaleidoscopes, items in a cabinet of curiosities.
Radiation was even supposed to be good for you. Vacationers soaked in radium hot springs. Magazines carried advertisements for radium suppositories, radium toothpaste and radium bread -- quack products ranging from useless to harmful. As late as the 1950s, customers could peer inside their own feet through shoe store X-ray machines, the scientific way to ensure a perfect fit.
As more bona fide uses led to a medical revolution -- X-rays for medical imaging, radium for killing rapidly dividing cancer cells -- hints of danger gradually accumulated. In the 1920s, women who had painted glow-in-the-dark radium watch dials began to sicken and die. Around the same time, scientists experimenting with fruit flies showed that radiation causes genetic mutations -- red eyes turned to white.
With Hiroshima, Nagasaki and above-ground testing, everything nuclear began to take on a more sinister air. But the threat still seemed distant and surreal. As mothers worried about strontium-90 from fallout insinuating its way into their children's bones, they were reading ''Atomic Bunny'' comic books and sending in cereal box tops for the Lone Ranger Atomic Bomb Ring, a cheap plastic spinthariscope that promised a glimpse of ''genuine atoms split to smithereens.''
For all the dread evoked by the stockpiling of nuclear weapons, it was the 1979 accident at Three Mile Island that marked an abrupt turn. Just days earlier, ''The China Syndrome'' had its cinematic release. The ''backup systems to backup systems to backup systems'' Jack Lemmon boasted about to Jane Fonda crumpled on the screen, adding to the anxiety over what was happening outside. In the end the partial meltdown was contained and the damage was mostly economic. A postmortem by the American Nuclear Society reported that the average dose to people living within 10 miles of the accident was 0.8 of a chest X-ray. But the name Three Mile Island never lost its afterglow.
In the meantime, Chernobyl has become a tourist destination. Visitors board a bus in Kiev and cross the border of the ''zone of estrangement.'' Avoiding the remaining hot spots, they see the ghost city of Pripyat and the ruined reactor. They can feed catfish swimming in a reactor cooling pond, and none of them have three eyes.
They might also see a resurgence of wildlife: moose, roe deer, Russian wild boar, foxes, river otter and rabbits. American ecologists who conducted a study of the area in the late 1990s concluded that for all the harm caused by fallout, the biggest impact from humans has been positive: their decision to pack up and leave. ''Northern Ukraine is the cleanest part of the nation,'' an official of Ukraine's Academy of Sciences said at the time. ''It has only radiation.''
Only radiation. That is small consolation for the evacuees in Japan and the workers, still dousing the reactors with hoses as though fighting a fire that could be put out.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 3, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on March 27 about the history and dangers of radiation misstated the given name of the man who discovered the X-ray, and a correction in this space last Sunday rendered his surname incorrectly. He was Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HOW RADIANT: A revealing image on display in 1950. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BERNARD HOFFMAN/TIME & LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES)(WK5) DRAWING (DRAWING BY PATRICK SEEGER/DPA -- CORBIS)(WK1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIOLOGY (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); NUCLEAR CHEMISTRY (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); BOTTLED WATER (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TSUNAMIS (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); CANCER (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); UKRAINE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



604 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Riven Nation

BYLINE: By ANDREW DELBANCO. 
Andrew Delbanco, the editor of ''The Portable Abraham Lincoln,'' is the Levi professor in the humanities and the director of American studies at Columbia.

 BODY:
AMERICA AFLAME
How the Civil War Created a Nation
By David Goldfield
Illustrated. 632 pp. Bloomsbury Press. $35.
Writing about what might have been is something historians tend to avoid. You may find the occasional counterfactual sentence in a serious history book -- What if Lee had accepted command of the Union army? What if Lincoln had lived? -- but that sort of speculation is usually left to novelists, as when Philip Roth, in ''The Plot Against America,'' imagines a United States gone fascist under President Charles /Lindbergh.
''America Aflame,'' David Goldfield's account of the coming, conduct and consequences of the Civil War, is not a book about things that never happened. It is a riveting, often heartbreaking, narrative of things that did. Yet it also compels us to ponder choices not made, roads not taken -- always with the implicit question in mind of whether the nation might somehow have spared itself the carnage of the war and, if so, what kind of nation it would have become. 
At the outset of his masterly synthesis of political, social, economic and religious history, Goldfield tells us that he ''is /antiwar, particularly the Civil War.'' Then he shows, in painfully vivid prose, young men marching into fields ''fat with corn and deep green clover'' only to be burned alive or torn by shrapnel, survivors left to breathe ''in spurts, a frothy saliva dripping creamily from their mouths down to their ears, strings of matter from their brains swaying in the breeze,'' or to die in their own blood and excrement or, if sufficiently alive to be carried off the field, to be treated by surgeons who, without knowledge of anesthesia or antisepsis, slice off mangled limbs with knives sharpened on ''the soles of their boots.''
Many other books (one thinks of Charles Royster's ''Destructive War'' and, more recently, of Drew Gilpin Faust's ''This Republic of Suffering'') have sought to convey, without glorifying or glossing it over, the battlefield truth of America's four-year descent into organized savagery. What is distinctive about Goldfield's book is that he believes the 600,000 deaths and countless mutilations could have been avoided. A war fought over the future of slavery did not have to happen because ''the political system established by the founders would have been resilient and resourceful enough to accommodate our great diversity sooner without the tragedy of a civil war.'' In advancing this thesis, Goldfield is returning to a view once held by eminent historians, including his teacher Avery Craven, that the war was an avertable catastrophe rather than, as Senator William Henry Seward of New York called it in advance, an ''irrepressible conflict.''
In Goldfield's telling, the force that drove the nation toward apocalypse was evangelical fervor of one form or another -- in the North, faith in the righteousness of the abolitionist cause, in the South, faith in slavery as a guarantor of a threatened way of life. ''Faith reinforced the romance of war'' until ''war had become a magic elixir to speed America's millennial march'' toward Armageddon.
But Goldfield's belief that the ''political system'' could have solved the problem of slavery is a leap of faith of his own. Secessionists, after all, left the Union precisely because they rejected a constitutionally valid election that placed slavery, as Lincoln put it, ''in the path of ultimate extinction.'' In his first Inaugural Address, which Goldfield aptly calls ''a walking-on-eggshells speech,'' Lincoln tried to reassure slaveowners that he would not interfere with their peculiar institution where it already existed, but would only limit its expansion into territories over which the federal government held authority. But slaveowners did not concede the constitutional legitimacy of that authority -- and the United States Supreme Court, in its notorious Dred Scott decision, had agreed with them.
Goldfield's heroes are those who, in the face of this impasse, sought a solution short of secession -- men like Alexander Stephens, a congressman from Georgia, later a reluctant vice president of the Confederacy, who was, in his words, ''utterly opposed to mingling religion with politics,'' and Stephen Douglas, a figure ''of selfless patriotism and personal courage'' who, recognizing his impending defeat in the election of 1860, campaigned through the South in an effort to save the Union and, after the attack on Fort Sumter, threw his support to Lincoln.
In the end, the war did put an end to legal human bondage in America. But emancipation came slowly -- first as a military measure to deny the Confederacy the coerced manpower of its slaves, only later as a war against the institution itself once the valiant service of black soldiers had made the thought of restoring slavery after the fighting was over unthinkable.
According to Goldfield, the war reduced the North to a sort of postorgiastic exhaustion, leaving former slaves at the mercy of terrorist organizations like the Ku Klux Klan in a South determined to return them to subjugation. After a failed experiment in reconstruction on the basis of racial equality, some of the hottest antebellum abolitionists became apostates to their once-professed faith. Harriet Beecher Stowe's ''passion for the plight of the slave'' gave way to a preoccupation with decorating houses. Horace Greeley, who had once goaded Lincoln to act more decisively against slavery, wondered if his own enmity to slavery ''might have been a mistake.''
Lamenting the horrors of the war, Goldfield computes its total monetary cost at around $6.7 billion in 1860s currency, and asserts that if ''the government had purchased the freedom of four million slaves and granted a 40-acre farm to each slave family, the total cost would have been $3.1 billion, leaving $3.6 billion for reparations to make up for a century of lost wages. And not a single life would have been lost.'' But this computation proceeds from some dubious assumptions. Such a transaction can be made only if there is a willing seller as well as a willing buyer -- and, as Goldfield himself notes, all attempts at compensated emancipation, even in the small border state of Delaware, where slaves were a minor part of the local economy, failed because slaveowners had no interest in such a deal. And even if they had, just where would the 40-acre farms be located? In the South? Or in the western territories, where abolitionist sentiment was often mixed with racist animus -- a sentiment, that is, in favor of excluding black people, whether slave or free?
Throughout Goldfield's book, one sees the present peeping through the past. In his allergy to the infusion of religion into politics, and his regret over the failure of government to achieve compromise, he sometimes seems to be writing as much about our own time as about time past. Yet even looking through his eyes, one finds it hard to imagine that the post-Civil War constitutional amendments by which black citizenship rights were advanced could ever have been ratified if the slave states had remained in the Union. The ''secession war,'' as Walt Whitman called it, would seem to have been a necessary prelude to the process of securing black equality -- a process still unfinished /today.
Despite its implausibilities, Goldfield's thought experiment in alternative history is provocative in the best sense. Most history books try to explain the past. The exceptional ones, of which ''America Aflame'' is a distinguished example, remind us that the past is ultimately as inscrutable as the future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY H. O'SULLIVAN/WAR DEPARTMENT/NATIONAL ARCHIVES, VIA TIME LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES (AFTERMATH OF THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG) ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); POLITICS (75%); WRITERS (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); BURN INJURIES (64%)

PERSON: DREW GILPIN FAUST (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: America Aflame: How the Civil War Created a Nation (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



605 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE SPORTS; Pg. 25B

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Chicago Embraces Teams As Other Cities Are Jilted

BYLINE: By DAN McGRATH. 
dmcgrath@chicagonewscoop.org

 BODY:
Dan McGrath writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.
Watching Derrick Rose and the Bulls put a one-sided whipping on the Sacramento Kings at the United Center last week raised a question: Anaheim wants this team?
Maybe the Kings' ineptitude was the result of stage fright. They play before mostly empty seats at home, but the U.C. was sold out, as it has been for Bulls games all season -- even Monday night games against last-place teams. 
It was that way in the California capital once, but a torrid, 26-year love affair between the city and its lone major franchise has turned tepid. An inadequate arena, a ravaged economy, a dwindling fan base and an all-American urge to make more money have prompted Joe and Gavin Maloof, the Kings owners, to look elsewhere.
Chicago went through a similar ordeal in the late '80s. White Sox Chairman Jerry Reinsdorf's dissatisfaction with the old Comiskey Park inspired a serious flirtation with moving the team to the Tampa Bay area, which sought a tenant for a new dome in St. Petersburg. Government intervention helped the Sox stay put. Not so Sacramento: The city is broke and in no position to offer any help to the Kings.
Chicago rallied to save its franchise. Politicians literally stopped a clock in Springfield, bargaining against a hard deadline to give Reinsdorf the package he needed to stay put.
The Sox back then were a lot like the Kings today: A once-popular franchise that had fallen on hard times, out of the playoffs for four years running and sinking fast. Tampa was staging an aggressive courtship, just as Anaheim is toward the Kings. And there were some who didn't believe the battle to keep the Sox was worth the effort or the money, another parallel with the Kings.
What Chicago did -- and what Sacramento has failed to do -- was to look ahead and sense what the city might be like without one of its major league teams.
Think what a Sox-less Chicago would have meant: No Crosstown Classics. No Ozzie Guillen. No 2005 World Series. No Oney Guillen -- never mind.
I worked in Sacramento shortly after the Kings arrived, and I can't envision the city without its signature team, any more than I could envision Chicago without the White Sox during those white-knuckle days in the late '80s when it took some adroit political maneuvering by then-Governor Jim Thompson to keep them here.
Anaheim, though, is an eager suitor, despite the presence of the Lakers colossus and the not-so-mighty Clippers 40 miles up the freeway. Jilted Kings fans might engender more sympathy if Sacramento hadn't stolen the team from Kansas City, which stole it from Cincinnati, which stole it from Rochester.
Pro basketball has been an odd fit in a city whose lone industry is state government and whose hoops history was pretty much confined to one player: Kevin Johnson, the former Phoenix Suns all-star point guard who is now Sacramento's mayor.
Yet upon their arrival the Kings began a sellout streak that encompassed more than a decade and two arenas -- first a converted warehouse, then dowdy Arco Arena. Arco, which was cheaply constructed in a forlorn corner of town, seemed outdated within months of its 1988 opening.
In either venue the team was unfailingly bad, though the fans remained uncommonly patient. They were very nearly rewarded in the 2002 conference finals against the Lakers, only to be denied by a late Bob Horry shot and some dubious officiating.
But as the Maloofs' business empire crashed, they began cutting corners on the basketball end. The Kings had a 19-52 record through Friday and were 29th of 30 teams in attendance. The fans have finally given up, and Sacramento is resigned to their departure.
''Right now the mood is good riddance, although I'm not sure it has sunk in,'' said R.E. Graswich, a top aide to Mayor Johnson and a former Sacramento Bee journalist who covered the Kings for seven years.
''We've grown up as a sports town,'' Graswich said. ''We're not going to back any crummy product they put on the floor. We've got bigger problems --12.5 percent unemployment, people being laid off or furloughed, their homes in foreclosure. The Kings would be a nice distraction if they were any good, but they're not.''
And soon they'll be gone.
That's sad. Graswich used to infuriate naively passionate Kings fans with his tough, honest reporting. ''The mood was, 'We not only have a team, we almost beat the Lakers once,' '' he said.
Chicagoans don't think that way. They don't have to. The teams here are thriving.
Surely you remember the excitement the Blackhawks generated with their Stanley Cup campaign just last season. The buzz is building as the Bulls gear up for a run of their own this year.
Even with all their question marks, the Cubs should draw their customary three million fans. Guillen's White Sox will be close to that if they contend as expected, and the Bears remain the toughest ticket in town, win, lose or lockout.
When a city loses a team, it loses some of its hope, the kind that will be rekindled when the Darwin Barney Era begins at Wrigley Field in a week. Let's see how it plays out.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The White Sox flirted with moving to Tampa in the late 1980s, but they stayed in Chicago, and won a World Series in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN DANIEL/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); BASEBALL (77%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%)

ORGANIZATION: SACRAMENTO KINGS (94%); CHICAGO BULLS (91%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (96%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



606 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: The Great Language Land Grab

BYLINE: By BEN ZIMMER

 BODY:
When tech companies engage in legal squabbles about who gets to use our everyday words, what are ordinary speakers of the language to make of it all?
Microsoft is suing Apple, and Apple is suing Amazon, all over the right to use a simple two-word phrase: ''app store.'' Apple got there first, introducing its App Store in July 2008 as a marketplace for mobile applications. In January, Microsoft disputed Apple's trademark claim, arguing that ''app store'' had already become a generic expression. And last week, Amazon announced its own ''Appstore'' for Google's Android devices, prompting an infringement suit from Apple.
It's not the first time the tech industry has claimed commonplace language as its own. 
Facebook has been notorious in this regard, filing trademarks on an array of common four-letter words: ''like,'' ''wall,'' ''poke'' and, naturally, ''face'' and ''book.'' Last year, two small Internet start-ups, the travel site Placebook and the educational site Teachbook, learned the danger of using ''book'' for online services when Facebook's lawyers came calling. (Placebook renamed itself, while Teachbook continues to fight it out.)
Microsoft, of course, has long been playing this game by fiercely upholding prosaic brand names like Windows, Office and Word. The Linux-based operating system Lindows, for instance, agreed to change its name (to Linspire) in 2004 after years of wrangling over whether ''Windows'' was generic. Now, in the ''app store'' dispute, the shoe is on the other foot, with Microsoft taking the role of language loosener.
According to Christopher Johnson, a branding expert who runs the Web site the Name Inspector, ''there's a land grab going on'' in the information economy, as ''companies are trying to snatch up pieces of our cultural commons.'' He lays much of the blame on the increasing scarcity of available names, whether for trademarks, domain names or Twitter handles.
Laurel Sutton, co-founder of the branding company Catchword, said she believed that the United States Patent and Trademark Office is ''about five Internet years behind the times'' in its willingness to allow companies like Apple to stake claims to generic words and phrases. ''All kinds of stuff gets approved that probably shouldn't have,'' Ms. Sutton said. If Apple's trademark is upheld, she reasons, it won't harm the bottom lines of Microsoft and Amazon -- but smaller companies could be hurt. ''This type of appropriation of language is only going to continue unless the U.S.P.T.O. realizes the potential for damage,'' she warned.
For what it's worth, the facts in the ''app store'' cases don't look terribly promising for Steve Jobs and his fellow Cupertino visionaries. ''App'' has been used by the computing crowd since at least 1985 as a short form of ''application.'' And as Microsoft lawyers were happy to point out in the January filing, Mr. Jobs himself has used ''app store'' in a generic manner. In a conference call with analysts last October, he was quoted as saying that ''Amazon, Verizon and Vodafone have all announced that they are creating their own app stores for Android.'' Blithely pluralizing ''app store'' like that is no way to protect a trademark that is supposed to be distinctive.
Though I don't have a dog in this fight, Microsoft also quoted me in its brief, since as chairman of the American Dialect Society's new-words committee I was responsible for making the announcement that ''app'' had been selected as the society's 2010 word of the year. That ended up being another quiver in Microsoft's bow, demonstrating how widespread the terms ''app'' and ''app store'' have become.
No matter the outcome of this dispute, you don't have to worry that Apple's lawyers will pound on your door with a cease-and-desist order if you mention that you want to download Angry Birds from an ''app store'' lacking the Apple seal of approval. ''This is not something that the general public needs to get bent out of shape about,'' said Jessica Stone Levy, a Denver-based trademark lawyer. ''This is really corporate maneuvering.''
The greater concern among Silicon Valley observers is the vast amount of time and money that these companies are spending in trademark proceedings that may amount to little more than gamesmanship. Rather than fighting over little words, the innovators of the Information Age could be busy, well, innovating.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MARK PERNICE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADEMARK LAW (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); TRADEMARKS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); PATENTS (76%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); DOMAIN NAMES (66%); STARTUPS (66%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (95%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (95%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (95%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (95%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (95%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



607 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: The 10-Year Plan

BYLINE: By JENNIFER COLLINS

 BODY:
Class of 2011 More images and audio interviews with students are atnytimes.com/magazine.
Patrick Henry High SchoolSan Diego
2,524 students
44% white
33% Hispanic
13% Asian 
10% African-American
44% are on a subsidized lunch program
83% of graduates attend college
Andrea Patterson, 18: I want to be a veterinarian, because I love animals. Especially going into the Army as one, you take care of marine animals, dolphins and seals as well as dogs, horses, cattle, donkeys, anything that involves the Army. My R.O.T.C. background will help me with that.; Andrew Benedict-Philipp, 17: I guess maybe I'm excited a little about what I may be doing in the future. I think I could do some cool things, I don't really know. That's the future. I don't know how much I spend time thinking about the future. (MM46); Stephen Cornwell, 17: Realistically, I see myself with a family making an average pay of around $90,000, and I see myself finishing up college and attempting to get my life on track. I would be involved in law enforcement. I'd encourage myself to go into the F.B.I. or the Secret Service.; Samantha Jensen, 17: I've always thought I wanted to be a teacher and work with kids, but then I decided that they didn't make enough money. And it's like I didn't want to deal with the kids having attitude. I always loved the medical TV shows, so I decided this year that I wanted to be a pediatrician.; Aun'Twanette Murphy, 18: I want to be an elementary-school teacher -- a child-development teacher to give kids who didn't have an equal opportunity to learn -- and I would teach in low economic places. The career appeals to me, because I love kids and I like putting smiles on their faces.; Amanda Strohauer, 17: I want to be a psychologist, because I love helping people. In 10 years, hopefully I'll be all done with college. I want to be successful and have a good amount of money to support my family, if I have a family at that point in time.; Ian Ortega, 18: I want to be famous. I want to be like an artist, a graphic designer. I like to draw, and I like to design. Most people don't like to do what I like to do. I would like to design covers for magazines put out by MTV or BET.; Nikki Ray, 17 I'm interested in becoming an engineer, because I'm strong in math and science. In 10 years, I want to be either married or in a committed relationship, in a higher position in an engineering firm and, I don't know, dogs and maybe a kid or two. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIELLE LEVITT) (MM47)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marvin Villas, 18: It has always been my dream to become a pilot. For me, it's not really money
it's just the experience of running an airplane, but I heard that pilots do make a lot. I always wanted to know the whole part of an airplane, be able to fix it and also be able to navigate it.
Haylie Szabo, 17: I think I would be a millionaire CSI forensic scientist. It would just be cool. In 10 years, I think I'll be transitioning into it. I don't see myself in, like, a big mansion or anything
I see myself in a nice house, like in a nice residential area.
Jeremy Land, 17: In my 10-year plan, I want to start going toward college and doing chiropracty or E.M.T. work and save up money, move out on my own. If I have a girl, that would be cool
and then create my own life, create a family and progress.
Kiana Villar, 18: In 10 years, I see myself here in San Diego, because I love the city. I'll be a midwife, because I would like to deliver babies. I expect to be in loads of debt but working my way out of it. And I see myself owning an apartment, hopefully have a down payment on a house.
Tudel Riek, 17: I would like to finish school and have a very stable job. My dream job would be working for a professional sports team or something in that field and just making a lot of money and being happy with my life. I would work for them as a trainer, an agent or in the executive offices.
Raquel Reynolds, 18: I would probably be still living in San Diego but going to Los Angeles or elsewhere to do hair and makeup on the sets of movies and photo shoots. Next year, I'll be going to the Paul Mitchell school in downtown San Diego. I'm trying to make my future happen as quickly as possible. (MM38)
Carli Harwood, 18: I'm really interested in the medical field, and I wanted to be a nurse, but I figure physical therapy is more hands-on, and I have the attitude for it. And you make bank, so I'm excited about that. I'm fine with being in a one-bedroom apartment wherever as long as I'm happy with my job.
Nathan Rebelo, 17: I want to be an architect. I really like designing homes, and my ultimate goal in life is to be driving somewhere downtown and show my kids or my family, like: ''I designed that building, that is me right there. I have my own stamp on life.''
Jana Tran, 17: I would be a photographer. In the next 10 years, I would like to have finished college and have my degrees and then have my own business and then also have my own apartment. I don't think I'll ever be wealthy, but I think I'll be financially stable. (MM39)
Kelsi Benton, 18: If I could be anything, I would want to be a photographer. Where I plan to be in 10 years is to have finished college for photography and computer graphics and to hopefully be starting a career living in L.A. or New York or staying here in San Diego.
Ryan Urie, 17: I'd like to be a track and cross-country coach
if I could be an assistant coach at a school, I could see myself there starting low and then working to the head coach. That'd be probably the realistic thing. That's probably what I'll look into.
Elivia Freeman, 18: I want to be working at a hospital as a neonatal nurse, probably with my nurse practitioner's degree. I don't think I'll be wealthy
I want to be well off and comfortable with the career I'm choosing. I will be. I don't see anything in my future that would really make me that wealthy.
Salome Zamora, 17: I would like to own a bakery. It would be a regular bakery for most people, but for people who have medical-marijuana cards that legally let them smoke weed for medical problems, they show us their card, and we can bake it into the food for them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ANIMALS (90%); ENGINEERING (83%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); MARINE MAMMALS (76%); MARINE BIOLOGY (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (60%); MAMMALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



608 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POISONED WEB; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3490 words

HEADLINE: A Girl's Nude Photo, and Altered Lives

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN

 BODY:
LACEY, Wash. -- One day last winter Margarite posed naked before her bathroom mirror, held up her cellphone and took a picture. Then she sent the full-length frontal photo to Isaiah, her new boyfriend.
Both were in eighth grade.
They broke up soon after. A few weeks later, Isaiah forwarded the photo to another eighth-grade girl, once a friend of Margarite's. Around 11 o'clock at night, that girl slapped a text message on it.
''Ho Alert!'' she typed. ''If you think this girl is a whore, then text this to all your friends.'' Then she clicked open the long list of contacts on her phone and pressed ''send.''
In less than 24 hours, the effect was as if Margarite, 14, had sauntered naked down the hallways of the four middle schools in this racially and economically diverse suburb of the state capital, Olympia. Hundreds, possibly thousands, of students had received her photo and forwarded it. 
In short order, students would be handcuffed and humiliated, parents mortified and lessons learned at a harsh cost. Only then would the community try to turn the fiasco into an opportunity to educate.
Around the country, law enforcement officials and educators are struggling with how to confront minors who ''sext,'' an imprecise term that refers to sending sexual photos, videos or texts from one cellphone to another.
But adults face a hard truth. For teenagers, who have ready access to technology and are growing up in a culture that celebrates body flaunting, sexting is laughably easy, unremarkable and even compelling: the primary reason teenagers sext is to look cool and sexy to someone they find attractive.
Indeed, the photos can confer cachet.
''Having a naked picture of your significant other on your cellphone is an advertisement that you're sexually active to a degree that gives you status,'' said Rick Peters, a senior deputy prosecuting attorney for Thurston County, which includes Lacey. ''It's an electronic hickey.''
In the fall of 2009, Margarite, a petite, pretty girl with dark hair and a tiny diamond stud in her nose, was living with her father, and her life was becoming troubled. Her relationship with her father's new wife was tense. Her grades were in a free fall.
Her social life was deteriorating. A good friendship with a girl had soured, abetted by a fight over a boy. This girl would be the one who would later brand Margarite's photo and forward it.
Margarite's former friend is tough and strong-willed, determined to stand out as well as fit in, according to those who know her. Her parents, recent immigrants, speak limited English and were not able to supervise her texting.
In the shifting power dynamics of middle school girls, the former friend understood well that she who sneers first sneers best. The flick of a cutting remark, swiftly followed by ''Just kidding!'' The eye roll. As the animosity between the two girls escalated, Margarite felt shunned by an entire group of girls and was eating lunch by herself. At home she retreated to her bedroom, alone with her cellphone and computer.
Her mother would later speculate that Margarite desperately needed to feel noticed and special. That December, just before the holidays, she took the photo of herself and sent it to Isaiah, a low-key, likable athlete she had recently gotten to know.
After the winter break, Margarite was preparing a fresh start. She would move back in with her mother and transfer to a school in a nearby district.
But one night in late January, a few days before her transfer, Margarite's cellphone began vibrating around 1 a.m., waking her. She was being bombarded by texts -- alerts from worried friends, leers from boys she scarcely knew.
The next morning in her mother's car, Margarite lowered her head, hiding her reddened eyes, her terrible secret.
''Are you O.K.?'' asked her mother, Antoinette, who like other parents and children who agreed to be interviewed asked to be identified by only first or middle names to protect their privacy.
''Yeah.''
''Are you sure?''
''Yeah.''
But her mother knew otherwise. Earlier that morning a parent had phoned Kirsten Rae, the principal of Margarite's school, Chinook Middle, complaining about a naked photo sent to her child. The child knew at least a dozen students who had received it.
The principal then called Antoinette. The police wanted to question Margarite. On the drive to school, the girl sobbed uncontrollably, feeling betrayed and degraded.
The school was buzzing. ''When I opened my phone I was scared,'' recalled an eighth grader. ''I knew who the girl in the picture was. It's hard to unsee something.''
Meanwhile, another middle school principal in Lacey had begun investigating a sexting complaint that morning. Ms. Rae realized that Margarite's photo had gone viral.
Students were summoned to Ms. Rae's office and questioned by the police. Their cellphones were confiscated.
Ms. Rae went into crisis management. Parents were calling, wanting to know whether their children would be arrested and how she would contain the spread. She drafted a letter for school families. Administrators planned a districtwide voicemail to the families of middle school students. Chinook teachers would discuss the issue in homerooms the next day.
By late morning, Isaiah and Margarite's former friend had been identified and pulled out of class.
Then Isaiah's mother, Jennifer, got the call. ''Naked?'' she shouted. ''How naked?''
When Jennifer, who works for an accountant, arrived at the school, she ran to Isaiah, a tall, slender boy with the startled air of an unfolding foal. He was weeping.
''I was in shock that I was in trouble,'' he recalled during a recent interview. ''I didn't go out of my way to forward it, but I felt responsible. It was bad. Really bad.''
He told the police that the other girl had pressured him into sending her Margarite's photo, vowing she just wanted to look at it. He said he had not known that their friendship had disintegrated.
How had the sexting from Margarite begun? ''We were about to date, and you'll be like, 'Oh, blah blah, I really like you, can you send me a picture?' '' Isaiah recalled.
''I don't remember if I asked her first or if she asked me. Well, I think I did send her a picture. Yeah, I'm pretty sure. Mine was, like, no shirt on.
''It is very common,'' he said. ''I'd seen pictures on other boys' cellphones.''
Mr. Peters, the county prosecutor, had been hearing that sexting was becoming a problem in the community. In a recent interview, he said that if the case had just involved photos sent between Isaiah and Margarite, he would have called the parents but not pressed charges.
''The idea of forwarding that picture was bad enough,'' he said. ''But the text elevated it to something far more serious. It was mean-girl drama, an all-out attempt to destroy someone without thinking about the implications.''
He decided against charging Margarite. But he did charge three students with dissemination of child pornography, a Class C felony, because they had set off the viral outbreak.
After school had been let out that day in late January, the police read Isaiah his rights, cuffed his hands behind his back and led him and Margarite's former friend out of the building. The eighth graders would have to spend the night in the county juvenile detention center.
The two of them and a 13-year-old girl who had helped forward the photo were arraigned before a judge the next day. (Margarite's former friend declined to be interviewed, as did the girl who helped her.)
Officials took away Isaiah's clothes and shoes. He changed into regulation white briefs and a blue jumpsuit. He was miserable and terrified.
''My socks got wet in the shower,'' Isaiah said.
WHERE TO DRAW THE LINE?
Sexting is not illegal.
Two adults sending each other naughty pictures, dirty language? Just garden-variety First Amendment-protected speech.
A November 2009 AARP article, ''Sexting Not Just For Kids,'' reported approvingly on the practice for older people, too. In women's magazines and college students' blogs, coy guides include pragmatic tips like making sure to keep your face out of the photo.
But when that sexually explicit image includes a participant -- subject, photographer, distributor or recipient -- who is under 18, child pornography laws may apply.
''I didn't know it was against the law,'' Isaiah said.
That is because culturally, such a fine distinction eludes most teenagers. Their world is steeped in highly sexualized messages. Extreme pornography is easily available on the Internet. Hit songs and music videos promote stripping and sexting.
''Take a dirty picture for me,'' urge the pop stars Taio Cruz and Kesha in their recent duet, ''Dirty Picture.'' ''Send the dirty picture to me. Snap.''
In a 2010 Super Bowl advertisement for Motorola, the actress Megan Fox takes a cellphone picture of herself in a bubble bath. ''I wonder what would happen if I were to send this out?'' she muses. The commercial continues with goggle-eyed men gaping at the forwarded photo -- normalizing and encouraging such messages.
''You can't expect teenagers not to do something they see happening all around them,'' said Susannah Stern, an associate professor at the University of San Diego who writes about adolescence and technology.
''They're practicing to be a part of adult culture,'' Dr. Stern said. ''And in 2011, that is a culture of sexualization and of putting yourself out there to validate who you are and that you matter.''
The prevalence of under-age sexting is unclear and can often depend on the culture of a particular school or circle of students. An Internet poll conducted for The Associated Press and MTV by Knowledge Networks in September 2009 indicated that 24 percent of 14- to 17-year-olds had been involved in ''some type of naked sexting,'' either by cellphone or on the Internet. A December 2009 telephone poll from the Pew Research Center's Internet and American Life Project found that 5 percent of 14- to 17-year-olds had sent naked or nearly naked photos or video by cellphone, and that 18 percent had received them. Boys and girls send photos in roughly the same proportion, the Pew survey found.
But a double standard holds. While a boy caught sending a picture of himself may be regarded as a fool or even a boastful stud, girls, regardless of their bravado, are castigated as sluts.
Photos of girls tend to go viral more often, because boys and girls will circulate girls' photos in part to shame them, explained Danah Boyd, a senior social media researcher at Microsoft and a fellow at Harvard University's Berkman Center for Internet and Society.
In contrast, when a boy sends a revealing photo of himself to a girl, Dr. Boyd noted, she usually does not circulate it. And, Dr. Boyd added, boys do not tend to circulate photos of other boys: ''A straight-identified boy will never admit to having naked photos of a boy on his phone.''
Policy makers are beginning to recognize that a uniform response to these cases does not fit.
''I hate the word 'sexting,' '' said Andrew J. Harris, an assistant professor of criminology at the University of Massachusetts in Lowell, who is leading a study of the practice among adolescents to help develop policies to address it. ''We're talking about a lot of different behaviors and a lot of different motivations.''
There is the high-tech flirt. The troubled attention-seeker. A couple's consensual exchanges. Drunken teenagers horsing around. Pressure from a boyfriend. Malicious distribution. A teenager who barrages another with unsolicited lewd photos or texts. Or, as in a 2009 Wisconsin case of ''sextortion,'' a boy, pretending to be a girl online, who solicited explicit pictures of boys, which he then used as blackmail to compel those boys to have sex with him.
The content of the photos can vary widely too, from suggestive to sadistic.
Adults in positions of authority have been debating how to respond. Many school districts have banned sexting and now authorize principals to search cellphones. According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, at least 26 states have tried to pass some sort of sexting legislation since 2009.
''The majority of states are trying to put something in place to educate kids before and after the event,'' said Justin T. Fitzsimmons, a senior attorney at the National District Attorneys Association who specializes in Internet crimes against children. ''We have to protect kids from themselves sometimes. We're on the cusp of teaching them how to manage their electronic reputations.''
But if the Lacey students were convicted of dissemination of child pornography, they could be sentenced to up to 36 weeks in a juvenile detention center. They would be registered as sex offenders. Because they were under 15, however, after two years they could petition a court to remove their names from the registry, if they could prove they no longer posed a threat to the public.
PENALTIES AND PREVENTION
Rick Peters, the prosecuting attorney, never intended for the Chinook Middle School students to receive draconian sentences. But he wanted to send a scared-straight message to them, as well as to the community.
Yet when the local news media storm cascaded, the outcry was not about the severe penalties for a felony sexting conviction. It was about why Mr. Peters had not also arrested Margarite.
''She's a victim,'' Mr. Peters said. ''She made an ill-advised decision to share that picture with her boyfriend. As far as she knew, that was as far as it would go.
''What good would come from prosecuting her? What lesson could we teach her that she hasn't already learned now 1,000 times over?''
Eventually a deal was brokered for the three teenagers who were charged. The offense would be amended from the child pornography felony to a gross misdemeanor of telephone harassment. Isaiah and the two girls who had initially forwarded Margarite's photo would be eligible for a community service program that would keep them out of court, and the case could be dismissed.
Those three students would have to create public service material about the hazards of sexting, attend a session with Margarite to talk about what happened and otherwise have no contact with her.
After Margarite and her mother approved the conditions, Mr. Peters signed off, pleased.
Throughout last spring, on Monday afternoons after school, Eric Fredericks, Isaiah's math teacher, met with the three students to help them develop their material.
Margarite's former friend made a PowerPoint presentation, with slides copied from the Internet.
The younger girl made a poster dense with warnings about sexting's consequences. She concluded: ''I am a 13 year old teen that made a bad choice and got my life almost totaled forever. I regret what I did more than anything but I cant take it back.''
Isaiah created a two-page brochure, citing studies from the Internet, accompanied by a tumble of adolescent feeling:
''Not only does it hurt the people that are involved in the pictures you send, it can hurt your family and friends around you, the way they see you, the way you see yourself. The ways they feel about you. Them crying because of your mistakes.''
Ms. Rae has yet to distribute the material. Chinook, with 630 seventh and eighth graders, still has students who know those involved in last year's episode. She wants to give Isaiah, Margarite and the others more time to distance themselves.
While the case was on its way to resolution, prosecutors and district educators decided to put its aftershock to good use.
''After the story broke, parents called us because they didn't know about the law that could send kids to jail for a bad choice,'' said Courtney Schrieve, a spokeswoman for the North Thurston Public Schools. ''Kids didn't know about it either. So we decided to turn this into an opportunity to educate teachers, parents and students.''
In October, Ms. Rae, the police, prosecutors and Mr. Fitzsimmons of the National District Attorneys Association held separate forums about sexting for Lacey's teachers, parents and student delegations from the four middle schools.
The students then returned to their homerooms to teach classmates what they had learned.
Elizabeth Colon taught a session with Jon Reid. Both are eighth graders at Chinook.
''Most of the questions were about penalties,'' she said. ''Kids wanted to know if they would get into trouble just for receiving the picture.''
Jon spoke about long-term consequences. ''I said that people may look at you differently,'' he said. ''They'll know what kind of person you were, even though you changed.''
One spring evening, the three students who had been disciplined met for a mediation session with Margarite and two facilitators from Community Youth Services. The searing, painful session, which included the students' parents and Mr. Fredericks, lasted several hours. Everyone was asked to talk about his or her role in the episode.
Mr. Fredericks listed all the people who had spent hours trying to clean the mess the students had created in a matter of seconds: police officers, lawyers, teachers, principals, hundreds of families.
Then it was Isaiah's turn. He looked Margarite in the eye. ''He poured his heart out,'' Mr. Fredericks recalled. Isaiah said that he was ashamed of himself, but that most of all, he was sorry he had broken Margarite's trust. Then he asked for her understanding and forgiveness. ''He cried,'' Mr. Fredericks said. ''I choked up.''
The former friend who had forwarded the photo, creating the uproar, was accompanied by her mortified father, an older sister and a translator. She came across as terse and somewhat perfunctory, recalled several people who were there.
One of the last to speak was Margarite's father, Dan, an industrial engineer.
''I could say it was everyone else's fault,'' Dan said. ''But I had a piece of it, too. I learned a big lesson about my lack of involvement in her use of the phone and texting. I trusted her too much.''
He had not expected the students to be punished severely, he continued. But they needed to understand that their impulsive actions had ramifications.
''When you walk out of here tonight, it's over, you're done with it,'' he said, looking around the room.
''Keep in mind that the only person this will have a lasting impact on,'' he concluded, is his daughter.
The photo most certainly still exists on cellphones, and perhaps on social networking sites, readily retrievable.
''She will have to live with this for the rest of her life.''
THE VICTIM
When the police were finished questioning Margarite at Chinook in January 2010, her mother, a property manager, laid down the law. For the time being, no cellphone. No Internet. No TV.
Margarite, used to her father's indulgence and unfettered access to technology, was furious.
But the punishment insulated Margarite from the wave of reaction that surged online, in local papers and television reports, and in texted comments by young teenagers throughout town. Although the police and the schools urged parents to delete the image from their children's phones, Antoinette heard that it had spread to a distant high school within a few days.
The repercussions were inescapable. After a friend took Margarite skating to cheer her up, he was viciously attacked on his MySpace page. Kids jeered, telling him to change schools and go with ''the whore.''
The school to which Margarite had transferred when she moved back in with her mother was about 15 miles away. She badly wanted to put the experience behind her. But within weeks she was recognized. A boy at the new school had the picture on his cellphone. The girls began to taunt her: Whore. Slut.
Margarite felt depressed. Often she begged to stay home from school.
In January, almost a year to the day when her photo went viral, she decided to transfer back to her old district, where she figured she at least had some friends.
The episode stays with her still. One recent evening in her mother's condominium, Margarite chatted comfortably about her classes, a smile flashing now and then. But when the moment came to recount the events of the winter before, she slipped into her bedroom, shutting the door.
As Antoinette spoke about what had happened, the volume on the television in Margarite's room grew louder.
Finally, she emerged. The smell of pizza for supper was irresistible.
What is it like to be at school with her former friend?
''Before I switched back, I called her,'' Margarite said. ''I wanted to make sure the drama was squashed between us. She said, were we even legally allowed to talk? And I said we should talk, because we'd have math together. She apologized again.''
What advice would Margarite give anyone thinking of sending such a photo?
She blushed and looked away.
''I guess if they are about to send a picture,'' she replied, laughing nervously, ''and they have a feeling, like, they're not sure they should, then don't do it at all. I mean, what are you thinking? It's freaking stupid!''
Poisoned Web: Articles in this series are examining online bullying.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Elizabeth Colon and Jon Reid gave a presentation about the consequences of sending risque photos and text messages after three students were charged in a sexting case at their school. Neither was involved in the case. (A20)
Rick Peters, a county prosecutor in Washington State, initially charged three middle school students with disseminating child pornography, a felony, after they forwarded a 14-year-old's nude photo of herself to hundreds of friends. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Public service material on the hazards of sexting that was written by a student charged in the Washington State case. Preparing the material was part of a deal that was brokered to avoid harsh penalties. (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXT MESSAGING (91%); SEX SCANDALS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SEXTING (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



609 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: A Dream Still Deferred

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. SUGRUE. 
Thomas J. Sugrue, a professor of history and sociology at the University of Pennsylvania, is the author of ''The Origins of the Urban Crisis: Race and Inequality in Postwar Detroit.''

 BODY:
AT first glance, the numbers released by the Census Bureau last week showing a precipitous drop in Detroit's population -- 25 percent over the last decade -- seem to bear a silver lining: most of those leaving the city are blacks headed to the suburbs, once the refuge of mid-century white flight.
But a closer analysis of the data suggests that the story of housing discrimination that has dominated American urban life since the early 20th century is far from over. In the Detroit metropolitan area, blacks are moving into so-called secondhand suburbs: established communities with deteriorating housing stock that are falling out of favor with younger white homebuyers. If historical trends hold, these suburbs will likely shift from white to black -- and soon look much like Detroit itself, with resegregated schools, dwindling tax bases and decaying public services. 
Detroit is not the only American city to face persistent residential segregation, but it is among the worst: it has ranked among the 10 most segregated metropolitan areas in the United States since the mid-20th century (though the rate of black-white segregation there has fallen markedly in the last decade, as blacks have moved into once-exclusive white neighborhoods).
As Detroit's black population skyrocketed during the Great Migration from the South, the city's whites fought what they called the ''Negro invasion'' with every tool at their disposal. From 1945 to 1965 whites attacked at least 250 black families -- usually the first or second to move into all-white neighborhoods -- breaking windows, burning crosses and vandalizing homes.
When white Detroiters could not win by fighting, they fled to the suburbs. Indeed, for a half-century beginning in the 1950s, Detroit lost nearly half of its population, almost all whites.
Those who left the city cited various reasons: desire for a little green space, new housing, better schools, freedom from crime. Few of them acknowledged the racial motive behind white flight, that words like ''freedom from crime'' were code for moving away from blacks.
In fact, many believed that Detroit's pattern of racial segregation was simply a matter of market forces. Or they attributed the whiteness of the suburbs to black racial inferiority: blacks, they said, did not have the discipline to own homes. Still others assumed that blacks didn't move to the suburbs because they couldn't afford it.
But those explanations were just convenient myths. Blacks and whites alike wanted to own their own homes and gardens, find better schools for their children and live on safe streets. But unlike whites, blacks did not have the freedom to move where they pleased. Detroit had many all-white suburbs with affordable housing, but qualified black homeowners could not get mortgages to move there.
Whites, meanwhile, benefited from enormous homeownership subsidies through the Federal Housing Administration and the Veterans Administration; blacks did not, at least until the late 1960s, when local, state and federal laws that forbade housing discrimination were passed.
The private sector played its part, too: loans and mortgages to minorities or for houses in racially mixed or black neighborhoods were deemed ''actuarially unsound,'' too risky an investment for lenders and builders. Even after the antidiscrimination laws of the late 1960s, real estate brokers surreptitiously maintained the color line in housing through ''steering,'' in which they directed whites to ''white neighborhoods'' and blacks to minority communities or places undergoing racial transition.
Nevertheless, by the 1970s the suburban dream had become a reality for a lucky few middle-class blacks from Detroit. In the post-civil rights era, their new white neighbors might greet them with cold shoulders rather than violence or vandalism. Still, when blacks moved in, whites soon moved out. Racially mixed towns stopped attracting white newcomers, especially those with school-aged children. Much to their chagrin, many new black suburbanites found that integration was just a phase between when the first blacks moved in and the last whites took their children out of the public schools.
What, then, accounts for blacks' move to the suburbs in the last decade? Like whites, blacks have long looked for alternatives to Detroit, with its high crime, poor services and scarce job opportunities. But it was not until the economy of the entire metropolitan area slumped, thanks to the faltering auto industry and the foreclosure crisis, that black buyers finally found whites willing -- desperate, in fact -- to sell their suburban houses, especially in the working-class and lower-middle-class towns bordering the city.
So far, Detroit's black suburbanization has followed a well-trodden path. Those blacks heading outward from Detroit aren't moving to all suburbs equally. Rather, they move into places with older houses, rundown shopping districts and declining tax revenues. Such towns also typically have poorer services and fewer job opportunities than wealthier suburbs -- where, despite strong antidiscrimination laws, it is still harder for blacks to find housing.
It's not clear that this new migration is a positive step, even if it allows blacks to escape the city and its troubles. For whites, suburbs have often been a big step up -- but as long as most blacks find themselves in secondhand suburbia, the American dream of security, prosperity and opportunity will remain harder to achieve.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN WIDDIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CENSUS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); FAMILY (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CHILDREN (73%); VANDALISM (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



610 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: The Plight of the Young and the Jobless

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Educated, Unemployed and Frustrated'' (Op-Ed, March 21):
I would like to congratulate the young Matthew C. Klein for exposing a distressing phenomenon that we, the parents, are too embarrassed to admit. After spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on our children's educations, we have little to brag about.
Many of our children are feeling desperate about their futures, and we are feeling as though we have failed them. 
As a social worker, I often work with clients who have seemingly insurmountable obstacles to employment. They are people without hope. I often find myself wondering, is this the future for my own children and their friends?
Laura Donkin Bethesda, Md., March 21, 2011
To the Editor:
Matthew C. Klein writes about the job search frustrations of those under 25. For the 25-to-30 age bracket, it doesn't get easier.
Many of my friends and I are unemployed. There is no pattern to indicate who will find a job. World-class education, enviable resumes, internships, volunteer work and excellent people skills offer no guarantees. Nor do teaching English abroad and seeking even higher education. I know because I have tried both.
The solution: Don't be ashamed to work even if the pay and position are lower than you hoped. Pride cannot pay the rent.
Michelle Bennett Chattanooga, Tenn., March 21, 2011
To the Editor:
As a 22-year-old college graduate seeking employment in the seemingly nonexistent entry-level job market, I can't help but notice the profound disrespect inherent in the expectation by some that young people like me should spend two to three years ''gaining experience'' (filing, copying and answering the phones) in unpaid or underpaid internships at either nonprofit or for-profit enterprises.
A slow economy is no justification for placing financial and emotional pressures on young people, many of whom cannot afford to spend several years with little or no compensation.
Emily A. May Takoma Park, Md., March 21, 2011
The writer is a recent graduate of Middlebury College.
To the Editor:
As a sporadically self-employed graduate of elite schools, I found that Matthew C. Klein's Op-Ed essay hit close to home. Skills to succeed in this market are rarely gleaned at summer internships. Instead, it is the ability to hustle and to think creatively that can make the difference between independence and your parents' basement.
I will not be marching with any Egyptian-inspired American protest over lack of jobs until I can no longer establish my own path, either by a traditional career or one of my own making. Meanwhile, I am optimistic that the skills I gained supporting myself -- networking, persistence, innovation -- are desirable in a traditional work environment.
Let's hope the current ''lost generation'' proves instead to be the most driven and imaginative this country has ever seen. I plan to do my part.
Marina Gibbons San Francisco, March 21, 2011
To the Editor:
While Matthew C. Klein provides an interesting narrative regarding how surging youth unemployment challenges governments around the world (regardless of regime type), I'd like to add two important points.
First, there is a profound difference between structural and cyclical unemployment among youth. While some recent college graduates in the United States have had a difficult time finding work, this is likely a cyclical phenomenon and profoundly different from the structural unemployment among youth that has dented economic growth in countries in the Middle East.
Second, we should look at how different countries' labor policies have fared in keeping youth unemployment rates relatively low. For example, German policies to promote job sharing among graduates have led to job development in key industries and a lower youth unemployment rate.
Erik Tollefson Minneapolis, March 21, 2011
To the Editor:
While I sympathize with young college graduates who feel misled about how eagerly the workplace would welcome them, I can't help thinking that those of us at the far end of the worker-age timeline are facing a far more taxing problem. Ask almost anyone over 55 who has been laid off: We are the unemployable in a society that values youth, beauty and Ivy League degrees far more than reliability, wisdom and experience.
We are a decade or so from Social Security and Medicare benefits, and our unemployment checks have long expired. Now we are taking ever-so-thin slices from our savings, canceling unaffordable health insurance policies, patching up the old car and hurting for our job-seeking children.
These were to be our golden years, well earned after 30 years of toil. But now we are past our ''sell by'' dates, offering ourselves at deeply discounted rates but still stuck here on the shelf, hoping for someone to notice.
Marti Davis Knoxville, Tenn., March 21, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL CASSARO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WRITERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (75%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (74%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



611 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: Political Pilgrim

BYLINE: By GEOFFREY C. WARD


HIGHLIGHT: Geoffrey C. Ward, a biographer and a screenwriter for documentary films, spent part of his boyhood in India and is currently writing a book about partition.

 BODY:
GREAT SOUL
Mahatma Gandhi and His Struggle With India
By Joseph Lelyveld
Illustrated. 425 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $28.95.
Some years ago, the British writer Patrick French visited the Sabarmati ashram on the outskirts of Ahmedabad in the Indian state of Gujarat, the site from which Mahatma Gandhi led his salt march to the sea in 1930. French was so appalled by the noisome state of the latrines that he asked the ashram secretary whose job it was to clean them.
A sweeper woman stopped by for an hour a day, the functionary explained, but afterward things inevitably became filthy again.
But wasn't it a central tenet of the Mahatma's teachings that his followers clean up after themselves? 
''We all clean the toilets together, on Gandhiji's birthday,'' the secretary answered, ''as a symbol to show that we understand his message.''
Gandhi had many messages, some ignored, some misunderstood, some as relevant today as when first enunciated. Most Americans -- many middle-class Indians, for that matter -- know what they know about the Mahatma from Ben Kingsley's Academy Award-winning screen portrayal. His was a mesmerizing performance, but the script barely hinted at the bewildering complexity of the real man, who was at the same time an earnest pilgrim and a wily politician, an advocate of celibacy and the architect of satyagraha (truth force), a revivalist, a revolutionary and a social reformer.
It is this last avatar that interests Joseph Lelyveld most. ''Great Soul'' concentrates on what he calls Gandhi's ''evolving sense of his constituency and social vision,'' and his subsequent struggle to impose that vision on an India at once ''worshipful and obdurate.'' Lelyveld is especially qualified to write about Gandhi's career on both sides of the Indian Ocean: he covered South Africa for The New York Times (winning a Pulitzer Prize in 1986 for his book about apartheid, ''Move Your Shadow''), and spent several years in the late 1960s reporting from India. He brings to his subject a reporter's healthy skepticism and an old India hand's stubborn fascination with the subcontinent and its people.
This is not a full-scale biography. Nor is it for beginners. Lelyveld assumes his readers are familiar with the basic outlines of Gandhi's life, and while the book includes a bare-bones chronology and is helpfully divided into South African and Indian sections, it moves backward and forward so often, it's sometimes harder than it should be to follow the shifting course of Gandhi's thought.
But ''Great Soul'' is a noteworthy book, nonetheless, vivid, nuanced and cleareyed. The two decades Gandhi spent in South Africa are too often seen merely as prelude. Lelyveld treats them with the seriousness they deserve. ''I believe implicitly that all men are born equal,'' Gandhi once wrote in the midst of one of his campaigns against untouchability. ''I have fought this doctrine of superiority in South Africa inch by inch.''
It actually took a long time for the Mahatma to turn that implicit belief into explicit action, Lelyveld reminds us. When Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi arrived in Durban from Bombay in 1893, he was a natty 23-year-old British-trained lawyer, hired to help represent one wealthy Muslim Indian trader in a dreary civil suit against another, and primarily interested in matters of religion and diet, not politics: in an early advertisement he proclaimed himself an ''Agent for the Esoteric Christian Union and the London Vegetarian Society.'' But, Lelyveld writes, ''South Africa . . . challenged him from the start to explain what he thought he was doing there in his brown skin.''
Initially, Gandhi was simply affronted that discriminatory laws and bigoted custom lumped educated well-to-do Indians like him with ''coolies,'' the impoverished mine, plantation and railroad workers who made up the bulk of the region's immigrant Indian population. The nonviolent campaigns he waged to bring about equality between Indians and whites over the next 20 years would lead him -- slowly and unsteadily, but inexorably -- to advocate equality between Indian and Indian, first across caste and religious lines and then between rich and poor. (His identification with the aspirations of black people would not come until long after he had left Africa.)
As Lelyveld shows, the outcomes of Gandhi's campaigns in South Africa were neither clear-cut nor long-lasting: after one, his own supporters beat him bloody because they thought he'd settled too quickly for a compromise with the government. But they taught him how to move the masses -- not only middle-class Hindu and Muslim immigrants but the poorest of the poor as well. He had, as he himself said, found his ''vocation in life.''
Soon after returning to India in 1915, Gandhi set forth what he called the ''four pillars on which the structure of swaraj'' -- self-rule -- ''would ever rest'': an unshakable alliance between Hindus and Muslims; universal acceptance of the doctrine of nonviolence, as tenet, not tactic; the transformation of India's approximately 650,000 villages by spinning and other self-sustaining handicrafts; and an end to the evil concept of untouchability. Lelyveld shrewdly examines Gandhi's noble but doomed battles to achieve them all.
He made a host of enemies along the way -- orthodox Hindus who believed him overly sympathetic to Muslims, Muslims who saw his calls for religious unity as part of a Hindu plot, Britons who thought him a charlatan, radical revolutionaries who believed him a reactionary. But no antagonist was more implacable than Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar, the brilliant, quick-tempered untouchable leader -- still largely unknown in the West -- who saw the Mahatma's nonviolent efforts to eradicate untouchability as a sideshow at best. He even objected to the word /Gandhi coined for his people -- ''Harijans'' or ''children of God'' -- as patronizing; he preferred ''Dalits,'' from the Sanskrit for ''crushed,'' ''broken.''
Sometimes, Gandhi said Indian freedom would never come until untouchability was expunged; sometimes he argued that untouchability could be eliminated only after independence was won. He was unapologetic about that kind of inconsistency. ''I can't devote myself entirely to untouchability and say, 'Neglect Hindu-Muslim unity or swaraj,' '' he told a friend. ''All these things run into one another and are interdependent. You will find at one time in my life an emphasis on one thing, at another time on [an]other. But that is just like a pianist, now emphasizing one note and now [an]other.'' It was also like the politician he said he was, always careful to balance the demands of one group of constituents against those of another.
As Lelyveld has written in ''Move Your Shadow,'' ''Gandhi had hoped to bring about India's freedom as the moral achievement of millions of individual Indians, as the result of a social revolution in which the collapse of alien rule would be little more than a byproduct of a struggle for self-reliance and economic equality.'' Foreign rule did collapse, in the end, ''but strife and inequality among Indians /worsened.''
Gandhi is still routinely called ''the father of the nation'' in India, but it is hard to see what remains of him beyond what Lelyveld calls his ''nimbus.'' His notions about sex and spinning and simple living have long since been abandoned. Hindu-Muslim tension still smolders just beneath the uneasy surface. Untouchability survives, too, and standard-issue polychrome statues of Ambedkar in red tie and double-breasted electric-blue suit now outnumber those of the sparsely clothed Mahatma wherever Dalits are still crowded together.
Gandhi saw most of this coming and sometimes despaired. The real tragedy of his life, Lelyveld argues, was ''not because he was assassinated, nor because his noblest qualities inflamed the hatred in his killer's heart. The tragic element is that he was ultimately forced, like Lear, to see the limits of his ambition to remake his world.''
Nonetheless, Lelyveld also writes, while he may have ''struggled with doubt and self until his last days,'' Gandhi ''made the predicament of the millions his own, whatever the tensions among them, as no other leader of modern times has.'' And, for all his inconsistencies, his dream for India remained constant throughout his life. ''Today,'' Gandhi wrote less than three weeks before he was murdered by a member of his own faith, ''we must forget that we are Hindus or Sikhs or Muslims or Parsis. . . . It is of no consequence by what name we call God in our homes.''
That was a revolutionary notion when he first urged Indians to unite against their oppressors in South Africa before the turn of the 20th century. It was revolutionary when he came home to India at the time of World War I, and still revolutionary in 1947 when India was simultaneously liberated and ripped apart by the religious hatred he had repeatedly risked his life to quell, and sadly, it remains revolutionary today -- for India and, by extension, for the wider world as well.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY VITHALBHAI HAVERI/GANDHISERVE)(BR1)
Mohandas K. Gandhi arrived in South Africa in 1893 as a young British-trained lawyer. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM KEYSTONE/GETTY IMAGES)
 In India in the 1920s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEYSTONE-FRANCE/GAMMA-KEYSTONE VIA GETTY IMAGES)(BR10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (87%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST INDIA (92%); GUJARAT, INDIA (90%); INDIAN OCEAN (78%) INDIA (98%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Great Soul: Mahatma Gandhi and His Struggle With India (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



612 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Goodbye, Innocence

BYLINE: By STEVEN HEIGHTON. 
Steven Heighton's most recent books are ''Patient Frame,'' a poetry collection, and ''Afterlands,'' a novel.

 BODY:
RODIN'S DEBUTANTE
By Ward Just
263 pp. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $26.
Many coming-of-age novels share a problem. Their callow protagonists, self-absorbed but not yet self-aware, tend to be less interesting than the supporting cast -- those confidently eccentric mentors, charismatic coaches and first lovers, those parents and confessors, tempters and tricksters. An author's insistence on keeping an immature figure front and center, page after ruminative page, can seem a vexing self-indulgence.
Ward Just's 17th novel, ''Rodin's Debutante,'' neatly avoids this problem while chucking aside almost every convention and cliche associated with the genre. For starters, his protagonist doesn't even appear in the opening scenes, which take place in a mansion in rural Illinois on the eve of World War I. Instead we're introduced to Tommy Ogden, the gloomy heir to a railroad fortune, an almost pathologically private man who, aside from his zeal for sketching and for shooting almost anything that moves, shows ''a massive lack of interest in the world around him.'' Yet he aims to have his home, Ogden Hall, made over into a boys' boarding school -- partly, it seems, to antagonize his spoiled, sarcastic wife. 
Then suddenly we're in a new novel with a fresh setting (the fictional mill town of New Jesper, on Lake Michigan, north of Chicago), a new era (during and just after World War II, that ''dynamic parenthesis in the progress of things in the small towns of the Midwest'') and a new point of view (a sculptor named Lee Goodell, looking back on his childhood). Here again, Just sidesteps bildungsroman cliche: Lee's narration is short on sensitive self-examination, instead looking outward, evoking the midcentury Midwest on the brink of change. The murder of a hobo and a vicious sexual assault on one of Lee's high school acquaintances mark an end to the town's superficial, Rockwellian innocence. It's an end only Lee fully recognizes, having learned that ''the Committee'' -- an unofficial cabinet of civic poobahs, including his father, a judge -- has arranged a cover-up. Like any thoughtful adolescent, Lee has reached that fulcrum in time where he seems to have no true home. The Ogden Hall School for Boys, now three decades old, awaits him.
Leaving Lee to steep a few more years, Just swivels away to new points of view, new characters, efficiently triangulating his central setting, the ''out-of-date /second-rate'' Ogden Hall School. The voice here is not so much omniscient as protean, zipping out of the consciousness of one character and into another's, so that minor figures (the school's admissions director, a disgruntled parent) suddenly gain stature and depth. In Just's generous world, each walk-on gets to steal the show, if only for a page.
At one point, the ancillary figure is Lee Goodell himself, seen through the eyes of his headmaster, Gus Allprice, a /middle-aged idealist who recalls the carpe diem-endorsing John Keating in the film ''Dead Poets Society.'' (Allprice's syllabus is devoted almost entirely to Melville's ''Omoo.'' Worn down by the arrogant laziness of his pupils, he resigns and ships out to Patagonia.) Later, when Lee is living in a ''dangerous neighborhood'' on Chicago's South Side, attending the University of Chicago by day and sculpturing in marble at night, he meets Dr. Petitbon, a dapper, taciturn African-American who presides over the free clinic where Lee volunteers as a clerk. Lee has chosen the South Side in order to break decisively with the genteel, sociopolitically oblivious life of his parents. It's here he deepens his education and where a fully adult conscience -- a progressive, empathetic one -- forms in a young man of ''protected'' background.
Another bildungsroman convention calls for a pair of mentors to represent opposing paths. In ''Rodin's Debutante,'' Tommy Ogden would seem to stand for the worldly life of wealth and power, while Allprice looks a lot like a spokesman for the elective poverty and creative freedom Lee eventually pursues. But Just inverts the scheme: it's Ogden who's the artist, his sketches becoming minor cult artifacts after his death, while Allprice is a drinker and dreamer who, for all his insight and charm, produces nothing and runs away. Such complicating touches help turn a coming-of-age tale into a subtle exploration of appearance and reality -- one that suggests that even ''omniscient'' narrators can see only so far into the mystery of character.
There are minor problems. Here and there, Just goes in for a kind of syntactical shortcut, presumably a side effect of his laudable economy of style, but one that creates grammatical ambiguities: ''She began to describe her studies, utterly fascinating.'' More significantly, Lee's wife, Laura, isn't fully brought into being, perhaps because we seldom encounter her through the medium of her own thoughts. And there's something rushed and anticlimactic in the serendipitous ease with which the self-taught Lee's first sculptures find their way into a good gallery and sell for high prices on opening night.
Still, ''Rodin's Debutante'' is an achievement. Into a couple of hundred fast-moving pages, it compacts an impressive array of characters, settings, ideas and scenes, including a superb account of the aftermath of a winning football season that fuses the romanticism of the early Kerouac and his mentor, Thomas Wolfe, with the wry humor of Richard Yates: the season soon becomes ''a very distant, very satisfying memory, one without any suggestion of regret or ambiguity. Lee knew without being told that there were few such experiences in life, at least in Illinois.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING OF WARD JUST BY JOE CIARDIELLO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (88%); WRITERS (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (78%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (72%); WORLD WAR II (68%); WORLD WAR I (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (66%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LAKE MICHIGAN (76%); MIDWEST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Rodin's Debutante (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



613 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: For Better Engine Efficiency, A Different Kind of Throttle

BYLINE: By PAUL STENQUIST

 BODY:
EVER since the first horseless carriage roared noisily to life, some means of controlling the speed of the engine has been a necessity for safe driving.
Limiting the amount of air available for combustion is the only practical way to control the speed of a gasoline engine, so that task has long been performed by a simple device: the throttle, a swiveling plate linked to the accelerator pedal that serves as a gate in the passageway that delivers air to the engine's cylinders. While most automotive power plant systems have advanced since the 19th century, the basic method of throttling the engine has evolved far less.
The simple throttle plate has continued to perform admirably, even as the systems that supplied gasoline progressed from the crude evaporative contraptions of a century ago to today's brainy electronic fuel-injection systems. 
But engineers have long known that the throttle plate saps the engine's power and efficiency, so with escalating fuel prices and dwindling resources providing an incentive to squeeze more miles from each drop of fuel, automakers drew a bead on the throttle plate, seeking to eliminate its inefficiencies.
Systems that control engine speed by varying the action of the engine's intake valves -- eliminating the throttle plate altogether -- arrived a decade ago, an old concept made practical by fast microprocessors. Still, their complexity limited them mostly to the top of the market, with BMW the pioneer of valve-throttled engines in 2001.
The arrival in the United States of the 2012 Fiat 500 minicar, with its new MultiAir engine, has brought valve-throttled power plants to a much less expensive part of the car market.
Efficiency gains of about 10 percent over a conventionally throttled engine are cited by most automakers that have used valve throttling, while power gains at partial throttle are said to be in the same range. However, peak horsepower remains unchanged, and substantial efficiency gains are realized only while driving at partial throttle and when idling.
A conventional throttle plate impedes efficiency because it increases the engine's workload, forcing the pistons to pull air in from a low-pressure area or a vacuum in the engine's intake system that extends all the way to the throttle-plate gateway. It's roughly comparable to trying to draw air through a straw while someone else is doing likewise at the opposite end. Engineers call this condition a pumping loss, because in essence an engine is an air pump. By limiting the flow of air with a throttle plate, the engine has to work harder.
Rather than regulating air flow with a throttle plate at the point where air enters the intake system, valve-throttling systems vary the amount that the engine's intake valves are opened, thereby controlling the flow of air at the point where it enters the engine's cylinders. When the throttle plate is eliminated and the intake valve is used to regulate airflow, the intake manifold remains at or near atmospheric pressure, so the engine does not encounter the same resistance. The result is a reduction in the pumping loss under light loads, which translates to better response and fuel economy.
BMW first used its Valvetronic technology on a 4-cylinder engine. The system used levers to control the distance that the intake valves were lifted off their seats. An eccentric shaft, driven by a computer-controlled motor, pushed the levers into gaps between valve stems and the camshaft, gradually increasing valve lift, while varying the intake valves' opening and closing points.
At idle speeds and under a light load, the amount of intake valve opening is small; when the driver pushes the gas pedal, the computer increases intake-valve lift, admitting more air into the cylinders and increasing engine speed.
BMW Valvetronic engines have a conventional throttle plate at the intake's entry point, but it closes only when the engine is not running and for a brief period after start-up. Following this warm-up period, the throttle plate remains open in normal driving, so there's no low-pressure area in the manifold impeding the engine's ability to pump air.
Today, nearly all BMW engines, including turbocharged engines, are throttled by Valvetronic. Because the intake manifold of a turbocharged or supercharged engine is nearly always at atmospheric pressure or above, valve throttling doesn't offer as significant an advantage in those engines as it does in motors that are naturally aspirated. But according to Tom Plucinsky, a BMW spokesman , it does improve throttle response because the time it takes for the turbo to pressurize the intake tract is reduced.
Fiat's MultiAir engines -- used in the Fiat 500 that recently went on sale in America, and in various Alfa, Fiat and Lancia models in other markets -- are throttled by the intake valves, but the Italian automaker's control system differs from those of BMW and other manufacturers.
Rather than using a mechanical device to regulate intake valve opening, Fiat uses a hydraulic chamber between the camshaft and the intake valve. A computer-regulated solenoid controls the amount of fluid in the chamber, according to gas-pedal position. At full throttle, the chamber is expanded and the intake valve follows the contours of the camshaft. At lesser throttle positions, the flow of fluid to the hydraulic chamber is reduced, and the valve opens only part way.
Nissan's Variable Valve Event and Lift technology operates similarly to BMW's valve-throttling system, using a motor-driven shaft and levers to vary intake valve lift in response to driver throttle input and other factors. That technology made its debut on the Infiniti G37 Coupe in April 2007.
While valve throttling is central to reduced pumping losses, it doesn't exist in isolation. In most applications, it is used in combination with variable intake and exhaust valve-timing schemes to improve overall response and efficiency.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EFFICIENCY: BMW's Valvetronic system, left, uses an electrically actuated device to vary intake- valve opening. Above, Fiat MultiAir engines use a hydraulic system to vary valve lift. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); POWER PLANTS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); AUTOMAKERS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



614 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Built With Families in Mind

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
IT seemed fitting for the developers of the Isis, a new high-rise condominium in Yorkville, to invite local first graders to watch the building's construction. The neighborhood on the Upper East Side, once a German enclave of low- and midrise apartments, is becoming more popular with families because of its excellent schools and good real estate values.
In fact Alchemy Properties, the developer of the 32-unit Isis at 303 East 77th Street and Second Avenue designed the tower to have only apartments of two bedrooms or more, which could also be easily combined to make even larger living spaces for families. Isis is within walking distance of Public School 290, where the first graders attend school. 
Yorkville, bounded by 72nd Street to the south and 96th Street to the north, and stretching from Third Avenue to the East River, has in recent years been popular among young professionals new to the working world. But an onslaught of development since the mid-2000s has removed some of the housing stock once favored by young, single people and replaced it with larger condominiums typically appealing to families.
As Kenneth S. Horn, the president of Alchemy, put it, ''We determined that in this particular area, it would be better to do a bit larger units as opposed to, say, another project we're doing now on the Far West Side, where we have studios, one-bedrooms and one-bedrooms with dens.''
Isis is almost half sold, he said, ''and I don't think we've sold to any single people.'' The developers threw a pizza party for their first-grade observers when they topped off the building in mid-2009.
Data provided by Miller Samuel Inc., a Manhattan real estate appraisal company, shows that 25 apartments of three bedrooms or more were sold in Yorkville in 2009, and 26 last year, compared with fewer than 10 in each of the two previous years. Over that time the number of studio sales shrank steadily, while the number of one-bedroom sales fell in the recession and then rebounded a bit in 2010.
Stuart Moss, a senior vice president and associate broker at the Corcoran Group, said the new developments in Yorkville, which include three on East 85th Street -- the Lucida, at No. 151; the Brompton, at No. 205; and the Georgica, at No. 305 --''have taken over a lot of those smaller, less-expensive former-tenement-type places that might have appealed to younger professionals.''
Some developers have found themselves combining apartments to create larger spaces, including those of the Brompton and the Lucida. Others including Alchemy have started out with mostly larger apartments. (In Alchemy's case, the developer also included a popular line of two-bedroom apartments with a smaller kitchen-dining area and a ''den'' that could be used as a children's playroom, among other things.)
The developers of the Azure, at 333 East 91st Street and First Avenue, the Mattone Group and the DeMatteis Organizations, began with 110 apartments of two bedrooms or larger (and only 18 studios or one-bedrooms), and have continually found themselves combining apartments for buyers.
''We structured our building to allow for a combination of two two-bedroom apartments into a 3,000-square-foot four-bedroom,'' said Douglas MacLaury, the senior vice president for development at the Mattone Group, ''and that's been one of our more successful products.'' The building, which has a children's playroom and a game room for teens, is about a third sold, he said.
Prices for new condominiums are $1,400 to $1,600 a square foot, Mr. Moss said, adding that an older co-op apartment might go for $800 to $900 a square foot. Combined apartments are becoming more common in the area's co-ops, he said. Rena Goldstein, an associate broker with Halstead Properties who lives in Yorkville with her husband and 21-year-old son, agreed. She combined two units to create her three-bedroom apartment at 200 East 78th Street and Third Avenue
''Large apartments -- larger than two bedrooms -- are not that common in the older buildings,'' Ms. Goldstein said. ''So you'll see in my building, for instance, there are a lot of combinations where people have put apartments together.''
Yorkville's appeal to families is enhanced by its excellent public schools, as well as its many preschools. The Upper East Side, of which Yorkville is a part, also has some of the best private schools in the world, Mr. Moss said.
The neighborhood has two attractive parks -- Carl Schurz Park, the site of Gracie Mansion, and the smaller John Jay Park -- plus Asphalt Green, a nonprofit community recreation center on 5.5 acres with an Olympic-size pool, a fitness center and sports offerings.
Besides a variety of children's activity centers, like Kidville on East 84th Street and the Art Farm in the City on East 91st, Yorkville has a number of stores like Gymboree and Planet Kids, which sell the necessities of childhood. Many restaurants are themed for children, and those that aren't typically welcome them.
''There are a lot of kid-friendly cafes, where you don't have to apologize for having a screaming kid,'' said Jenny Rozenblat, who rents a 900-square-foot one-bedroom on 81st Street and First Avenue for $2,100 a month with her husband and 9-month-old daughter, Nadia.
As her daughter grows, Ms. Rozenblat said, she and her husband will probably find a new apartment -- but only a few blocks west, within Yorkville, to get Nadia into the highly rated Public School 6, on 81st between Madison and Park. ''It feels like it's an understanding community here,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KID CORNER: A number of new condominiums in Yorkville have apartments of two bedrooms or more. (RE1)
 STROLLER SET WELCOME: All the apartments at the new Isis condo have two bedrooms or more. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(R8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



615 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Rich District, Poor District

 BODY:
To balance New York State's budget, Gov. Andrew Cuomo wants to cut a record $1.5 billion from the $23 billion budget for grades K-12.
The cuts would scarcely affect wealthy districts that rely primarily on local taxes to support lavishly appointed schools. But they would be catastrophic for impoverished rural districts that have been starved of state aid for decades and are still reeling from cuts levied last year when David Paterson was governor. Already struggling to furnish even basic course offerings, the poorest districts would need to cannibalize themselves to keep the doors open and the lights on.
The fundamental inequity of the cuts, as currently proposed, can be seen in how they would affect two of the state's school districts: Ilion in the economically depressed Mohawk Valley, and Syosset, a wealthy town in Long Island's Nassau County.
ILION 
CURRENT BUDGET 2010-2011: $25 MILLION
NUMBER OF STUDENTS: 1,600
CUOMO PROPOSED CUT: $1.1 MILLION
The system is one of the poorest in the state. More than a third of its 1,600 students are eligible for free or reduced-cost lunches, and that figure would no doubt be higher if some families whose children need free lunches to eat nutritiously were not too ashamed to apply for it.
Impoverished districts like Ilion, which has an eroding tax base and relies on the state for more than three-quarters of its budget, were supposed to fare better after a 2006 court ruling that ordered the state to give each district enough money to provide every child with a ''sound basic education.''
Under a new formula created by the Legislature, some of the poorest districts were promised as much as an 80 percent increase. The increases were to be phased in over four years in steadily larger amounts. Ilion, which had been promised a 35 percent increase, got a modest boost in the first two years. But then the state ran into fiscal trouble; funding was kept flat in 2009 and cut in 2010. Like many other poor districts, Ilion retrenched. It laid off teachers and backed down from plans to expand its course offerings.
Thanks to an ambitious school building program carried out by the state, Ilion's low-rise brick high school is in great shape and indistinguishable from similar buildings even in wealthier communities. The course offerings tell another story. The school offers only one foreign language, Spanish, and is unlikely to offer any others until and if the economic climate improves. As a result, a transfer student who was seeking a third year of French has had to take the course online.
The school offers only four of the possible 34 Advanced Placement courses, which allow students to earn college credit in high school. The Advanced Placement course in biology was particularly hard won: school officials said they had to ''steal nickels here and there'' to buy microscopes and other material necessary to run the course, which is certified and overseen by the College Board.
Under the Cuomo administration's proposal, Ilion would be asked to absorb a new $1.1 million cut, on top of the $450,000 cut it took last year. That would not even come to a rounding error in the state's richest districts. But for Ilion, whose budget is about $25 million, the new cut, combined with the $1.3 million the district is obligated to pay for raises, benefits and other costs, produces a deficit of about $2.4 million.
Mr. Cuomo has left the impression that school districts like Ilion could weather cuts by tightening their belts and winning pay freezes through negotiations with their employees. A pay freeze would save Ilion only $600,000, leaving a huge deficit of $1.8 million. The district could save money in the long term by getting teachers to contribute more to their health care costs. But that will not happen, if at all, until the current contract expires next year.
Moreover, pension expenses, which will cost the district more than $1 million this year -- and about 2.5 percent more next year -- are locked in by the State Constitution, which makes it illegal to reduce benefits for workers already enrolled in the system. Proposals that would create less expensive pension plans for future employees will take decades to produce significant savings.
Ilion is seeking to save money by merging with three districts nearby. But the results of a merger feasibility study will not be known until the fall. The only short-term way for Ilion to cut costs is to lay off teachers while savaging academic programs that are already inadequate.
SYOSSET
CURRENT BUDGET 2010-2011: $188 MILLION
NUMBER OF STUDENTS: 6,600
CUOMO PROPOSED CUT: $1.4 MILLION
Meanwhile, prospects remain bright in affluent districts like Syosset in Nassau County, which has a rich local tax base and, according to the most recently available statistics, gets only about 12.6 percent of its budget from the state. The district's course catalog runs more than 130 pages. It offers students Spanish, French, Italian, Japanese, Russian, Latin, American Sign Language and Mandarin Chinese. College-bound students, which is to say, just about everyone at the high school, have access to a dazzling array of almost 30 Advancement Placement classes that include different levels of calculus, physics, economics, environmental science, music theory and studio art.
Signs outside the low-rise building that houses the high school proudly proclaim that the United States Department of Education has cited Syosset High for the excellence of its academic programs and that the system's arts education program was ranked first in the nation in 2002. Whereas most Ilion students end up at local community colleges, Syosset launched nearly all of its graduating seniors into four-year colleges last year. A significant number of them enrolled in schools like Harvard, Yale, Columbia and Cornell.
The district could easily raise enough through local taxes to support its entire $188 million budget. Despite its lavish programs and a budget more than seven times that of Ilion, Syosset would get roughly the same cut under the Cuomo plan, about $1.4 million.
Districts like Syosset also benefit from loopholes in the state funding formula that drive hundreds of millions of dollars each year toward wealthy and moderate-income school systems that could do without it.
The most obvious of these is the so-called high-tax aid provision that reimburses wealthy and moderate-income districts that tax themselves heavily to fund high-end school programs. By state estimates, this provision inflates the school budget by about $200 million per year. Another provision that deliberately underestimates the poverty levels in the poorest districts has cost those districts millions in aid. Yet another provision that allows districts in wealthy areas to have a larger portion of basic education funding covered by the state siphons off even more money.
No one should begrudge wealthy districts like Syosset their wonderful course offerings. But the state must do more to improve and better fund public schooling in economically depressed parts of upstate New York.
Governor Cuomo has made revitalizing these areas a priority. But the region stands little chance of attracting high-skill jobs if its schools are allowed to deteriorate. Instead of swallowing the Cuomo proposal whole, the Legislature should fashion a fair system that cuts out the givebacks to the wealthy while driving more money toward the starving, poorer districts that so desperately need it. By helping those districts survive tough times, the state is also looking out for its own best interest.
This is part of a series about the fiscal crisis in New York State and in other states around the country. You can read all of these articles at: nytimes.com/fiscalcrisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FAMILY (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



616 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
Solving a Pension Mess
To the Editor:
In ''Share the Risk and Share the Harvest'' (Economic View, March 20), Robert J. Schiller didn't draw the right comparison between today's state pension systems and the farm families of yesteryear. 
Yes, different generations of farm families would share in the financial pain of bad times and the joys of good times. But for many government employees today, it's as if the family's wastrel son took the money that it had earned from the harvest and spent it on liquor and betting on horses, anticipating a higher return than he could get by improving the yield of his crops.
Many public employees have long had money withheld from their paychecks for contributions to state pension plans, only to find that governments reward the wealthy in the form of tax cuts. And much of the money that did find its way into pension funds in recent years ended up in the 21st-century equivalent of betting on horses.
Lean years on the farm are caused by the vicissitudes of nature. What happened in 2008 to our financial markets, the fallout of which we are still feeling today, was completely devised by humans.
Jill Cozzi
Washington Township, N.J., March 20
To the Editor:
If state pensioners are supposed to make shared sacrifices during bad times, let's consider these questions: Were these people rewarded commensurately in the good times? Did the states increase contributions to their pensions when Wall Street was booming? Unfortunately, many of the answers follow the all-too-popular model of socializing risk and privatizing profit.
While I do feel that baby boomers drove our economy into a ditch, and thus shouldn't be traveling the world in their twilight years while younger generations slave to right the nation's course, I do not think state pensioners are a large part of this jet set.
Matthew Semrad
Manhattan, March 21
To the Editor:
The column missed a key point: State government employees earn fixed incomes. On a job-by-job basis, they mostly earn less than they might in the private sector, with a trade-off of somewhat better benefits. Many of these workers have chosen or accept their government jobs based on good-faith judgments favoring long-term stability over the feast-or-famine nature of much private-sector work.
If sharing fairly is the intent, perhaps the states should be compelled to build bigger reserves during boom times, as Joseph advised Pharaoh (to use an older agricultural analogy than the column's).
Peter Rosenthal
Charleston, S.C., March 21
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY FARMS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); FAMILY (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



617 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE YOUTH ISSUE; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1772 words

HEADLINE: The Seekers

BYLINE: By JESSE LICHTENSTEIN

 BODY:
One day in the fall of their sophomore year, Matthew Fernandez and Akash Krishnan were at Akash's house in Portland, Ore., trying to come up with an idea for their school's science fair. At Oregon Episcopal School, all students in 7th to 11th grade are required to enter a project in the Aardvark Science Expo (the aardvark is the school's mascot), and these two had teamed up for the last three years. Temporarily defeated, they popped in a DVD of ''I, Robot.''
There's a scene in the movie when Will Smith, who plays a robot-hating cop, visits Bridget Moynahan, the impossibly gorgeous scientist, and they begin to argue. She gets angry. Her personal robot immediately walks into the room and asks: ''Is everything all right, Ma'am? I detected elevated stress patterns in your voice.'' It's a minor exchange -- a computer recognizing emotion in a human voice -- in a movie full of futuristic robots wreaking havoc, but it was an aha moment for a desperate research team. Their reaction, as Matt describes it, was: '' 'Hey, that's really cool. I wonder if there's any science there.' '' 
There was -- it was just really hard. With emotion recognition, they stumbled onto a thorny problem. Computers have become very good at parsing an audio signal into specific words and identifying their meaning. But spoken language is more than just semantics. ''If I say 'happy' and you say 'happy,' it'll sound kind of similar, and a computer can try to match that up,'' Matt explains. But it's far from clear what elements in an audio signal indicate happiness or anger as a quality of voice. Trying to figure that out quickly consumed them. Matt stayed up late reading research papers, ignoring his other homework. Akash was up until 3 a.m. many nights, reading and programming. They spent long hours at each other's houses or talking on Skype.
The research paper they submitted for the school expo was 30 pages of code and 60 pages of writing to explain it. ''Emotion is innately meta information,'' Matt says, ''and that's why it's a real challenge. A lot of people base their algorithms off of speech-recognition systems because those have been established. But emotion is a really different task, and it's a different goal.'' For one, in speech recognition, sequence is essential; get the sounds out of order, and you mess up the words. In emotion recognition, the order isn't nearly as important as various measures of energy and pitch. Determining what information to pay attention to in the audio signal and how to process it involves imagination, some sticky calculus and a lot of trial and error. ''We tried to think of something new,'' Akash says of the algorithm they built, ''instead of using what other people tried to do.'' The algorithm they came up with allows them to determine the emotion of a speaker by measuring 57 different features of an audio signal against a prerecorded signal that's already been defined by a human listener as, say, ''happy'' or ''angry.'' Their algorithm doesn't yet recognize confidence, or sarcasm, but what it does do (imperfectly, but better than the rest of the field) is detect fear, anger, joy and sadness in real time, without eating up so much processing power as to be impractical in a handheld device.
Their project won the team competition at last year's expo, and they went on to represent O.E.S. at the Intel International Science and Engineering Fair in San Jose, where they received the team award in physical sciences. In the fall, now juniors, they entered the Siemens Competition, one of two premier science competitions in the nation, and made it to the nationals in Washington, where they won the team grand prize. With the honor came $100,000 in scholarship money and two thick glass plaques -- one sits above the fireplace in Matt's house, the other in the dining room of Akash's. When I met them last month, they had just returned from ringing the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange. ''Someone gave us his card,'' Akash says, ''and said, 'When you make your company, be sure to give us a call.' ''
Matt, 17, is voluble, well spoken and quick to laugh; Akash, 16, is quieter, perhaps more intense -- he describes himself as ''passive''; a better word might be ''shy.'' Both are six feet tall, musical and athletic, albeit not in the sports that lead to high-school glory (Matt is captain of the cross-country team; Akash plays tennis and has a black belt in karate.) ''People, when they interact with us separately, would say we're really kind of different,'' Matt says. Yet each has a talent for finding interesting knots and unraveling them.
They have been friends at O.E.S. since the first grade. They first noticed a joint affinity for science in third grade, when they were taking timed multiplication tests: both excelled at math -- that was clear -- but the difference between them and their peers was, Matt recalls, ''how much they cared about it.'' In seventh grade they wrote a computer program that helped their classmates quiz themselves on vocabulary. As eighth graders, they came up with a study of bridge design, building 41 balsa-wood models by hand, that did well at the science fair. In ninth grade, they took another stab at bridges, but the project tanked. That failure turned out to be a blessing. ''On that project we learned lot about how to work as a team,'' Matt says.
Theirs has been a friendship that expresses itself most easily through the problems they solve. Yet even as they were refining a machine's ability to process emotions, Matt was struggling to come to terms with his own. His parents did not attend the Siemens Competition in D.C. -- his younger sister, Marie, went instead. Matt's father, battling brain cancer for two years, was undergoing a last-ditch chemo treatment. There were many discussions about whether Matt would even go ahead with the competition. In the end, he did, with Akash shouldering some of the extra load at the worst moments. ''Even when life was pretty crazy for me, he was on top of everything,'' Matt says of his partner. ''Also, obviously, comforting -- but he did a great job of taking the lead when he knew that I was not as mentally capable.'' They won Siemens on Dec. 6. Louis Fernandez died on Jan. 2.
Matt speaks fondly of his father, of their weekend projects, of how it has now fallen to him to decipher the way his dad, a software engineer, set up their home's networked electronics -- even though his mother, Linda Blakely, trained as a mechanical engineer. Discussions at the dinner table began where Matt's homework left off and ranged far afield, from the physics of microwave ovens to the economics of candy consumption -- with Matt's dad relishing the role of explainer. Every evening, it was, as Linda describes it, ''the land of the nerds.''
Despite their professions, Matt's parents didn't want Matt and his sister on computers at a young age. They favored board games and puzzles and banished the TV to the attic, where it now sits, blocked by a Ping-Pong table, waiting for a special occasion like the World Series. Though the clutter of Matt's bedroom reflects a variety of interests -- trophies for chess and soccer, his hat collection and a K'Nex contraption he built years ago -- science held a privileged place. Above his bed hangs a black-and-white photograph of an elderly Albert Einstein with a blanket laid across his lap; in a color photo next to it, the face of a 6-year-old Matt peeks out from beneath the same blanket. (Matt's grandfather was apparently friends with the family of a former associate of Einstein's.)
Akash, too, grew up in a ''land of the nerds.'' His father, Krishnan Palaniswami, an electrical engineer who works on a secret project at Microsoft, holds six patents and has another pending. His mother, Anitha Krishnan, is a software engineer at Synopsys. His parents emigrated from Southern India to attend graduate school, and the family visits relatives in Tamil Nadu every few years; they speak Telugu at home. Akash's bedroom has none of the detritus you expect from a teenage boy: the walls are bare; his desk is uncluttered. He actually does his work downstairs, in an office that houses the computer he built recently from parts. When I visited, he slid out the transparent side panel to show me the machine's innards, from which a blue glow emanated. There were six hard drives for processing the massive amounts of audio data their project requires, plus a water-cooling system to help the fan take the edge off the processing heat.
Akash ran through some of his former programming hits -- a ''Virtual Classroom'' he developed after snow and ice knocked out a week of school during finals (''It works the same way school does except it's through the Internet''), a solitaire program, a Sudoku solver (''It uses brute force''). As the family dog, Vito, provided background vocals, Akash demonstrated last year's real-time emotion recognition model. I spoke into the microphone and, with a one-second delay, the monitor showed me, with a series of bars, how much happiness, sadness, anger and fear my voice exhibited. I was apparently angry, or so the machine thought.
Akash and Matt may be teenage science geeks who get inordinate satisfaction from playing with mel-frequency cepstral coefficients late into the night, but that's not all they are; their project has a variety of potential real-world applications. So real that a group of law students at Arizona State is helping them apply for patents. When Akash and Matt talk about the future, they talk about working on a chip that could provide emotion-recognition capabilities to a range of devices/ like cellphones or, someday, the onboard life monitoring systems of computers on spacecraft (benevolent ones, of course). Last summer they interned with Jan van Santen, a researcher at Oregon Health and Science University, and became intrigued by the prospect of finding a way to help autistic kids pick up on emotional cues in speech. (They're working on a wristwatch that processes speech in real time and flashes an emoticon to its wearer.) And both of them spend Tuesday and Thursday afternoons in a three-story open area, originally intended for gravity experiments, known as the Drop Zone. There, as part of O.E.S.'s InvenTeam, they helped design a bicycle-operated system for lowering a bucket deep enough to fetch water in parts of Niger, where the water table lies 130 feet below the surface. ''The big project aspect is what gets me going,'' Matt says. ''Hopefully I can do more of those big projects, hopefully with Akash, in college or even beyond. Maybe we'll drop out, I don't know!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Akash Krishnan and Matthew Fernandez, winners of the 2010 Siemens Competition in Math, Science and Technology. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER YANG) (MM45) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (90%); VOICE RECOGNITION (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%)

PERSON: WILL SMITH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (73%) OREGON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



618 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: In Tennessee, Grand Plans for a $750 Million Theme Park Raise Great Doubt

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON; Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
SPRING HILL, Tenn. -- Earlier this month, at a news conference in a field on the east side of the city, a man named Dennis W. Peterson announced that he was bringing a theme park to the Tennessee countryside.
The park, he said, would be called Festival Tennessee, and it would cost around $750 million. On these bucolic 1,500 acres, there would be two resort hotels with 4,000 rooms apiece. There would be 80 restaurants and clubs, as well as one of the largest water parks in the United States. And a stadium. And, with any luck, an NBA franchise. And a television production studio. Also, a charter school.
Mr. Peterson estimated that Festival Tennessee would create 15,000 jobs, maybe even 20,000. And, he said, it would be open in less than two years.
People had a few questions: Who was this man? What was his background? Where was he getting the money for all this? What happened to his front teeth? (They were recently lost, he explained to reporters, to a crispy chicken wing at Hooters.) 
Michael Dinwiddie, the mayor of Spring Hill, was one of the only people to know about the project, having quietly worked on it with Mr. Peterson for two months. It thrilled him. For a small city like Spring Hill, 45 minutes from Nashville, it was the magic kingdom of economic development.
In surrounding Maury County, the unemployment rate is around 14 percent, a result of the recession and a 2009 decision by General Motors to stop producing Saturns at the plant here.
Spring Hill itself was not as dependent on the plant. A quiet farming town only a few decades ago, it has become a bedroom community for people who work in Nashville and its suburbs.
But this could turn Spring Hill into a destination. ''This project will also generate tens of millions of dollars in sales tax and property tax revenues,'' Mr. Dinwiddie said at the news conference.
Still, there was something curious about the whole thing. For one, no one had contacted state authorities about the plans.
Local reporters and bloggers uncovered more oddities, starting with Mr. Peterson's company, the Big International Group of Entertainment. The company, it was discovered, had its license revoked last year by the State of Nevada. The company's president, Roger Kidneigh, who did not return messages seeking comment, had declared personal bankruptcy, claiming assets of less than $200,000.
Reached by phone, the woman listed as the company's treasurer said she had never actually worked for Big International Group and did not want her name associated with it.
Festival Tennessee was not the company's only dream. Several music magazines had been discussed, as was a theme park in Las Vegas. There were plans for ''The Way of the Unicorn,'' an animated movie about an orphan named Sailor -- to have been voiced by Michael Jackson -- who saves the world with the help of some endangered species.
They fell through.
Thomas Maierle, who is listed as a former officer of Big International Group, said Festival Tennessee would be different.
''It's not easy putting something like this together,'' said Mr. Maierle, who has something of a troubled record himself but says he still advises Mr. Peterson on business dealings. Asked what his position was with the company now, Mr. Maierle, who is on parole in Michigan for possession of ''child sexually abusive material,'' said that was ''a subjective question.'' But he said he had faith in Mr. Peterson.
''I think you'll find that anybody who is anybody in this world has gone through some bruises to get to where they are,'' Mr. Maierle said.
Mr. Peterson, who did not respond to calls or e-mails, and his companies have had a few bruises, including liens, judgments and eviction notices in California, Florida, Nevada and Utah. He has also had set-tos with investors, one of whom, alleging fraud, successfully sued him for over $200,000.
''These people have left a trail of tears all over -- it's insane,'' said Shannon Reilly, who filed a lien against Mr. Peterson and his wife in 2007. The Petersons arranged to have their horses boarded at her Florida ranch, she said, but after seven rather unfit horses were delivered, she never heard from them again.
Michael Johnson also knew of Mr. Peterson -- calling him a man ''who can weave a story like nobody you've ever met.''
Mr. Johnson said he allowed Mr. Peterson to move into a property in San Diego on the understanding that he was getting the money to buy it. Not only did Mr. Peterson never come up with the money, Mr. Johnson contended in a legal action in 2007, but when he was mistakenly sent a deed by a title insurance company, he used it to secure a $450,000 loan. Mr. Peterson was evicted, but the loan has not been repaid, Mr. Johnson said.
David Anthony, a Nashville lawyer, had heard about Festival Tennessee before just about anyone around here. Last year, he said, a man facing foreclosure on several homes came forward with a promise that a millionaire in Florida was planning to buy three of the homes, at an inflated price of around $7 million. As proof of his financial resources, Mr. Anthony said, the millionaire -- Mr. Peterson, as it turned out -- sent the man a packet of material about vaguely planned projects, including Festival Tennessee and the ''Unicorn'' movie, with promises that the money would come later.
''These were magic beans,'' Mr. Anthony said. The bank he represented in the case was unmoved.
This sort of thing gives pause to many Spring Hill residents, including Jonathan Duda, a city alderman. Mr. Duda said he had the same concerns now as he did last year when a man identifying himself as a Nigerian king -- a claim viewed skeptically by everyone from the State Department to the Spring Hill police chief -- was received with a ceremony on the steps of City Hall.
''We're being used to provide credibility for something that may be counterfeit,'' he said.
The mayor, however, remains cautiously optimistic.
''It should be a very positive story,'' Mr. Dinwiddie said in an interview at the Cracker Barrel, where the hostess urged him to ignore all the negativity and asked if her daughter-in-law's Irish dance troupe could get a show at the theme park.
Mr. Dinwiddie pointed out that the park's conceptual design had been drawn up, albeit some years ago, by ITEC Entertainment, an international firm that has done work for Universal Studios and Sea World. Mr. Dinwiddie even flew to Orlando, Fla., to meet with Mr. Peterson and ITEC's president. (ITEC would not comment on the project for now, a spokeswoman said.)
The involvement of a company like ITEC, the mayor said, suggests that there might actually be something to Festival Tennessee.
Besides, he said, what if, after everything in his past, Mr. Peterson is right about this one? It is a tricky thing, betting on a man's redemption.
But in this case, Mr. Dinwiddie said, there is no downside. Mr. Peterson is not asking the town for money. If the theme park is built, the town gains thousands of jobs. If not, it loses nothing.
But if he turned Mr. Peterson away, and the project was real ... well, Mr. Peterson would just move on, the mayor said, taking his $750 million theme park to some other town that was willing to do business.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dennis W. Peterson, right, and Mayor Michael Dinwiddie, left, with plans for Festival Tennessee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANFORD MYERS/TENNESSEAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (92%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); BASKETBALL (73%); RESORTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); WATER PARKS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); JOB CREATION (69%); SALES TAX (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); RECESSION (64%); PROPERTY TAX (62%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (55%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (50%); ANIMATED FILMS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (99%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



619 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2236 words

HEADLINE: Alone, Together

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
ON a raw, gray morning this month, two women sat at their usual table, eating breakfast from plastic trays. Rose Bosco, who is 95, was having oatmeal and toast, her white hair swooping magnificently back from her pale forehead. Delores Brown, 73, passed her a carton of milk and a banana to slip into her purse for later. Their shoulders touched as they leaned close in conversation.
Five mornings a week, shortly after 8, they meet at the same round table with the clear plastic cover in the main dining area of the Seaside Adult Community Center in Rockaway Beach, Queens. They have been sitting together since last fall, though neither can remember how it started.
''I don't know how we became friends,'' Ms. Bosco said, turning her head so she could hear with her good ear. ''Maybe she came and sat here one day.'' 
''No, I sat over there,'' Ms. Brown said.
''Delores is always with me, all the time,'' Ms. Bosco said. ''When I have a friend I'm always with them. Of course, a lot of them passed away.''
Seaside, a squat one-story brick building, was one of 105 senior centers that the city marked for closing because of state budget cuts in January. Its ceiling tiles are water-stained; large bugs roam the musty gray carpet. In a past life the building was a bar. Four years ago, the city closed it temporarily because the roof was unsound. In no neighborhood would it draw praise for its architectural beauty or innovative services.
''Some places have more stuff,'' Ms. Bosco acknowledged.
But for Ms. Bosco and Ms. Brown, the center has been the soil for an unexpected and valued friendship, one of many formed between bingo games and complaints about the food. Each afternoon Ms. Brown, a former nurse, walks Ms. Bosco, the daughter of a sharecropper, two and a half blocks home. The elder woman lives by herself in a small bungalow owned by her grandson; the younger, in a house with her son and grandson. Though they are coherent in conversation, both repeat themselves at short intervals, seemingly unaware of what they said moments earlier.
''I don't know how I got here today,'' Ms. Bosco said. ''The wind almost blew me over.''
''Did you walk?'' Ms. Brown said.
''Yeah, how else would I get here?''
For these women, and the 80 or so other regulars who spend most weekdays there, Seaside provides a place of connection in the face of isolation. They can buy breakfast for 50 cents. Lunch is a buck and a quarter. Complaining is free. The rest is the mess of human interaction, a community that forms around the most commonplace events: a phone call that means a relative is visiting, another that means a friend has passed.
The two women were there all winter, even on the snowiest, iciest, windiest mornings. Budget cuts permitting, they will be there all summer, even on the most sweltering, humid afternoons. Where else would they be?
Ms. Bosco, who has been going to Seaside for about a year, picked indifferently at her breakfast. Her daughter visits the center once a week to spend time with her, but even then Ms. Bosco talks mainly with Ms. Brown. She does not know anyone else's name, she said, though everyone knows hers. It took her long enough to learn Ms. Brown's.
''How long have I known you?'' she asked her friend.
''Long enough,'' Ms. Brown said.
''You were sitting over there before,'' Ms. Bosco said.
''No, I was over there, at Table 7,'' Ms. Brown said.
''She taught me how to dance,'' Ms. Bosco said, adding, ''I don't know if we have all the new steps.'' She shrugged her frail shoulders. They do not have many opportunities to dance; at most Seaside parties, there are few men. ''Who you going to dance with?''
''You danced with me, didn't you?'' Ms. Brown said. Ms. Brown is a very good dancer.
''We only did it once,'' Ms. Bosco said.
''More.''
''More?'' Ms. Bosco said. ''It was good, though.''
Ms. Brown nodded in agreement. It was good.
THERE are 256 city senior centers, feeding about 28,000 people a day, at a total cost of $86 million to the federal, state and city governments. The centers are a legacy of the 1960s, when stories of older people living on pet food shocked the city and the nation. Nearly one quarter of New Yorkers over age 65 live in poverty, according to the city's Center for Economic Opportunity, which uses a formula that factors in the local cost of living.
Last year, state and city budget cuts threatened 75 of the centers -- Seaside was not among them -- and 29 were ultimately closed. The centers are intended to serve New Yorkers over age 60. This January, the dance began again: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo proposed redirecting $25 million from the centers to child welfare; that, said the city's Department for the Aging, would mean closing about a third of its centers; on March 15, the centers got a reprieve, with the Assembly and the State Senate voting to restore the money.
But even if Governor Cuomo, as expected, signs the legislation by the April 1 deadline, those who run Seaside say they will feel safe only until next year's budget cycle. Meanwhile, they are looking for another home, one without stained ceilings and water bugs. Situated on a windswept strip of land separated from the rest of Queens by the waters of Jamaica Bay, Seaside, whose budget is $259,823, serves a population particularly vulnerable to isolation.
The center is operated by Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens on a contract from the Department for the Aging. About 60 percent of those who use the center are African-American, according to Rose Lawrence, the program director; the rest are mainly Jewish, Italian, Irish or Hispanic. There are two other centers in the Rockaways, one 26 blocks away, the other 73 blocks. Neither serves breakfast.
''If this place closed, where can I go?'' asked Marty Mortner, 83, who started going to the center after his wife died in 2007. ''Who wants to bother with an older person? You go downstairs and wash your clothes. You stare at the four walls. It ain't the best place, but we stay because there are no other places. What should we do, lay down in the gutter for the garbage truck to pick us up?''
If the center closed, Ms. Brown said, she and Ms. Bosco would still get together as friends. Ms. Bosco said she didn't think so.
''I don't know what I would do,'' she said. ''I wouldn't have Delores for a friend. We stick together. There's not too many friends like that.''
Days at Seaside fall into a regular rhythm: Monday is sewing and bead work. Tuesday is tai chi. Wednesday is exercise class and Pictionary. Thursday is painting. Friday is flea market day. There are occasional outings, parties, nutrition workshops and blood pressure screenings. And daily there is bingo after lunch, and dominos whenever anyone is game.
But these activities are merely the ticks of a clock, organizing and marking time. The life of the center is what happens between and beyond them.
FOR Veronica Meehan, what happened was love.
Ms. Meehan, 86, wears her white hair pushed upward in a crest of perpetual wonder. Her arthritis requires her to use a cane, which means she had to give up her purse. So one recent morning, she carried life's essentials on two lanyards around her neck: keys, wallet, lipstick, money, frequent-shopper cards from a few stores, and invitations to three St. Patrick's Day parties.
Getting to the center can be an adventure. Two years ago, a gust of wind knocked her over and she broke her arm.
''Did you people notice that the last couple years the wind has gotten extreme?'' Ms. Meehan asked no one in particular as she arrived the other day, shaking off the cold. ''I wonder if they're doing something funny with the climate.''
She started going to the center in 1990, after she followed her daughter to the neighborhood. At the time she was divorced. ''I was an old woman,'' she said. ''I never thought I'd end up with -- is it ridiculous? -- a boyfriend.''
Two months later, she said, a widower from the center asked her to meet for Sunday breakfast. She did not think much of him at the time. She was 65; he was 15 years older. He had made comments that struck her as ignorant. But the restaurant had a special for Sunday breakfast: buy one, get one free.
''He said, 'I was just wondering,' '' she recalled. '' 'It's a lovely day. If you walk your way and I walk mine, we'll meet at 94th Street.' ''
His name was Tom, and he made her laugh. He took her to dances and places where people drank alcohol, things she had missed during her marriage. Her friends and her daughter said that he was too old, but he was good company. She had married at 18 and raised five children -- six, she said, if you counted her ex-husband.
Tom introduced her to a new life, one she thought would never be hers. He took her out at night and then saw her in the mornings at Seaside. For 15 years, until his death in 2006, he was the great love of her life.
''He used to say to me, 'You're my treat in my old age,' '' she said. ''And I thought, 'He's my treat in my old age.' But I never told him that.''
Ms. Meehan's daughter Maureen Meehan, 66, remembered Tom as the ''catch of the center,'' and said she had been wrong to tell her mother he was too old. ''She'd had an unhappy marriage, and now here was this man,'' the younger Ms. Meehan said. ''They'd spend the entire day together. It just made her so alive and vibrant.''
The elder Ms. Meehan said she hoped she would never turn into a complainer. Life was good. There were parties.
''All I ever did was clean house, take care of my children, take care of my mother and father,'' she said.
''So now I have this,'' she said of Seaside. ''A lot of times I'm nice to people I really can't stand. I say, 'Lord, don't let me be like that.' ''
IN the dining area one afternoon, Angel Soto, 66, planted a loud kiss on Ms. Bosco's forehead, then drew back and did it again. ''This is a man-killer right here,'' he said, loud enough for all to hear. ''How many husbands you destroyed already?''
Ms. Bosco gazed ahead as if weathering a sudden storm. She said she had no idea who he was. ''What does that man see in me?'' she asked. ''He's been having his eyes on me for a long time. Maybe he's interested in me, I don't know.''
Ms. Brown looked on wryly. She had no time for such foolishness.
Ms. Bosco was born early in the last century, one of 14 children in a sharecropper family near Baton Rouge, La. ''Women didn't know how to protect themselves then,'' she said with a mild laugh.
She left school after the third or fourth grade because she had typhoid fever, and she never had a full-time job, though she worked briefly as a seamstress. She outlived a husband and a son.
''My mother doesn't make friends easily,'' said Arlene Sinansky, 70, Ms. Bosco's daughter, a retired teacher. Before moving to Rockaway Beach, Ms. Bosco lived in a building for the aged in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, until her money ran out. ''You want your mother in a nice place,'' Ms. Sinansky said, ''but she lived so long.''
Ms. Brown was born a generation after Ms. Bosco, one of eight children in a family in Harlem. She worked as a nurse at Bellevue and at the Hospital for Joint Diseases, and when her parents became frail she cared for them. ''I always liked taking care of people,'' she said. ''I missed it.'' Ms. Brown has three sons in New York, a daughter in California.
When she first started going to Seaside, several years ago, Ms. Brown befriended a woman named Barbara Davis, who suffers from uveitis, an eye condition that leaves her nearly blind. Ms. Davis is outgoing, an Aquarius. Ms. Brown helped her navigate the center; on weekends they went to church together.
So when Ms. Davis stopped showing up for a while last year, ''you could see that Delores was at loose ends,'' said Ms. Lawrence, the program director. Around that time, Ms. Bosco and Ms. Brown just gravitated toward each other.
Their friendship has brought out qualities in Ms. Bosco that she never showed before, her daughter said. ''My mother can dance,'' Ms. Sinansky said, still seeming surprised at the notion. ''We were always uptight.''
She added: ''The center was Delores for her. She was her core.''
After lunch one day, everyone prepared for a pre-spring party: music and dancing, cake and ice cream. Parties are a regular feature of life at Seaside. As is bad news.
''You come to these places, you see people, then you don't see them anymore,'' Mr. Mortner said. ''That's the only bad thing about it. You say, 'Gee, I was just talking to her.' ''
Parties are a chance to dispel such thoughts -- or at least, drown them out. A staff member cued a CD of disco songs from the 1970s. A few people danced; a few others complained that the music was too loud.
Ms. Bosco danced with Ms. Brown for a few songs, then continued after her friend sat down.
She danced to ''Stayin' Alive.'' She danced to ''I Will Survive.'' No one assigned any significance to the titles.
In midafternoon, some members lined up for the van that takes them home. Ms. Bosco and Ms. Brown prepared for the walk in the elements, past the empty stores of Rockaway Beach Boulevard. Ms. Bosco covered her hair in a knit cap with ear flaps.
''Delores always walks me home,'' Ms. Bosco said. ''I don't know why she does it. She doesn't have to.''
The first street crossing is the widest, without a light to stop traffic. It is an act of faith for the women to cross at their speed. Ms. Bosco does it twice a day, with and without her friend.
After all, she said, ''What are we going to do, stay at home?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CENTER STAGE: At the Seaside Adult Community Center in Queens, Rose Bosco, 95, shared a dance with the center's chef, Denise Turkvan.
KEEPING BUSY: Ms. Bosco spends much of her time at Seaside with Delores Brown, 73, above left. At the center, lunch, left, costs $1.25. (MB1)
DAY'S END: Delores Brown, left, walks her friend Rose Bosco home from the Seaside Adult Community Center in Queens. A slide show about the center is at nytimes.com/nyregion.
 REGULARS: Top, Arthur Zelhof, 40, who has had two strokes, gets help with his coat from Veronica Meehan, 86. Marty Mortner, 83, near right, started showing up after his wife died. Above, party desserts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (75%); BUDGETS (70%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (66%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



620 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
NUCLEAR CHIEF SAYS JAPAN
IS 'FAR FROM THE END'
The world's chief nuclear inspector said that Japan was ''still far from the end of the accident'' that has stricken its Fukushima nuclear complex and continues to spew radiation into the atmosphere and the sea, and acknowledged that the authorities were still unsure about whether the nuclear cores and spent fuel were covered with the water needed to cool them and end the crisis. PAGE 10
ANGER IN RESISTANCE IN SYRIA
Syria was tense and fearful as mourners buried the dead and the president tried to promote calm by ordering the release of political prisoners one day after government forces opened fire on unarmed demonstrators demanding freedom from repressive rule. PAGE 8 
LIBYAN ASKS PRESS FOR HELP
A Libyan woman burst into the hotel housing the foreign press in Tripoli in an effort to tell journalists she had been raped and beaten by members of the Qaddafi militia. After struggling for nearly an hour to resist removal by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's security forces,she was dragged away from the hotel. PAGE 9
STRIKE KILLS AFGHAN CIVILIANS
A NATO airstrike targeting Taliban fighters accidentally killed and wounded an unspecified number of civilians Friday in the southern province of Helmand, one of the most insecure regions in the country, NATO officials said. PAGE 12
UNEASE FUELS FRENCH PARTY
Ahead of the 2012 presidential elections. France's far-right National Front party is getting around 20 percent in early opinion polls, putting it about even with the main parties of the right and left. The party's strength depends on the general dislike for mainstream politicians, and feeds off the social unease felt by people in poor cities. PAGE 6
National
F.B.I. CASTS WIDE NET
UNDER RELAXED INQUIRY
Within months after the Bush administration relaxed limits on domestic-intelligence gathering in late 2008, the Federal Bureau of Investigation assessed thousands of people and groups in search of evidence that they might be criminals or terrorists, a newly disclosed Justice Department document shows. In a vast majority of those cases, F.B.I. agents did not find suspicious information that could justify more intensive investigations. PAGE 17
CALIFORNIA'S ODD COUPLE
Ana Matosantos, California's youngest budget director, is an unlikely choice for Gov. Jerry Brown. Unlike Mr. Brown, she is a Democrat. And now the two of them are at the center of what has become the crucial battle of the governor's first few months on the job, as he tries to push through a budget that would almost certainly define much of his tenure in Sacramento. PAGE 14
THEME PARK RAISES DOUBTS
The promise of a new, sprawling theme park in Spring Hill, Tenn., has inspired excitement about the jobs the project might bring, but also suspicions about the man who announced plans to build it. PAGE 13
Metropolitan
FIGHTING LONELINESS
AT CENTER FOR ELDERLY
Seaside, a squat one-story brick building in Queens. was one of 105 senior centers that the city marked for closing because of state budget cuts in January. For the people who spend most weekdays there, Seaside provides a place of connection in the face of isolation. They can buy breakfast for 50 cents. Lunch is a buck and a quarter. Complaining is free. The rest is the mess of human interaction, a community that forms around the most commonplace events. PAGE 1
Sports
FOR FEMALE ATHLETES,
AN INJURY TAKES A TOLL
Female athletes are at higher risk than men of tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in their knees, and thus to have their careers interrupted. A number of possible risk factors have been identified in women, including some that are anatomical, biomechanical and hormonal. PAGE 1
DEBATING HOCKEY'S HITS
The debate in the N.H.L. over how to curb concussions is only the latest example of tensions between liberal and traditional forces that have shaped hockey since its beginnings in 19th-century Canada. PAGE 1
A COACHING TREE BLOOMS
Mike Scioscia had a year of experience as a minor league manager before he was tapped to guide the Los Angeles Angels. But Scioscia's coaching staff keeps branching off through the major leagues: Three coaches from Scioscia's original Angels staff now manage other teams. PAGE 1
TWEETING THE LOCKOUT
Social media is often thought of as a powder keg, but in the N.F.L. labor dispute, it may be acting more like a boiling chip. Twitter may provide an instantaneous sounding board for discontented players weary of the party line, but its wide range and immediate feedback create sudden consequences for anyone who stands out from the crowd. The Fifth Down. PAGE 5
Obituaries
JOHN L. CASHIN JR., 82
He was a civil rights campaigner who was the first black candidate for governor of Alabama since Reconstruction, mounting an unsuccessful challenge in 1970 to the arch-segregationist George C. Wallace. Page 24
Sunday Business
NEW LIFE FOR BEAUTY EMPIRE
FROM AN UNLIKELY SOURCE
The heirs of the Estee Lauder beauty empire are expanding in new markets, with the help of an outsider C.E.O., Fabrizio Freda who came from Procter & Gamble. The choice was a radical departure for the Lauders, but the family believed that the company needed a professional manager to streamline operations and to lead its global expansion. Mr. Freda has, by all accounts, energized the company. Page 1
IMAGINING A NEW WEB WORLD
The Web is already the crucial utility of online commerce, information and entertainment, so how can it be poised for a comeback? The Web's importance is indisputable -- but there are signs that it is slipping. The focus of investment, innovation and energy is shifting elsewhere in computing. But the Web's fortunes may soon brighten. Page 3
INTERNSHIPS, AN INSIDE TRACK
Internships have long been a part of the collegiate learning experience, but have never been more closely tied to permanent hiring than they are now, experts say. Companies increasingly view them as a recruiting tool because they are a way to test-drive potential employees. Page 9
Automobiles
AN ITALIAN FAVORITE
FINALLY GETS TO AMERICA
In 2007 Fiat unveiled the production version of the sixth-generation 500, based on the Trepiuno design study of 2004. The Cinquecento won numerous awards but fans in the United States could only watch with envy until Fiat's deal to acquire a 35 percent stake in Chrysler. Plans to bring the 500 to North America were quickly set, but it was still another two years before its tires hit American soil. Sports, Page 13
Arts & Leisure
CARVING A BOLD DESTINY
FOR PORTUGUESE MUSIC
In the beginning of fado, a soulful, guitar-based style of music from Portugal, there was Amalia Rodriguez. In the past decade there has been a raising of new voices, among them Ana Moura who will tour North America this summer. Page 7
Book Review
A BACKWOODS GOTHIC
HAUNTS THREE GENERATIONS
A legacy of fear and mysticism haunts Sheri Holman's gothic novel, ''Witches on the Road Tonight,'' writes Julie Myerson. Page 9
T
A CRADLE OF ROCK
IN GERMANY'S SEATTLE
Forever enshrined by the Beatles, the city of Hamburg, Germany, is a fab foray into sex, beer and rock 'n' roll. Page 90
Magazine
WHEN THE GOOD GIRL
STARTS GROWING UP
The 17-year-old tween idol Amanda Crosgrove is beloved by millions on her show ''iCarly,'' but as she grows up the question rises of whether she can avoid becoming tabloid fodder like so many others before her. Page 32
Editorial
RICH SCHOOL DISTRICT, POOR SCHOOL DISTRICT
The inequity of Gov. Andrew Cuomo's proposed education cuts can be seen in how they will affect two of the New York State's school districts: Ilion and Syosset. Week in Review, Page 9
A MINIMUM WAGE INCREASE
As the nation grapples with a jobs crisis and unemployment hovers near 9 percent, it is easy for policy makers to forget the plight of those who work but earn very little. There are about 4.4 million workers earning the minimum wage or less, according to government statistics. They need a raise. Week in Review, Page 9
Op-Ed
MAUREEN DOWD
Mormons make their flamboyant debut on Broadway. Could the White House be next? Week in Review, Page 11
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
Hosni Mubarak is gone, but an Egyptian woman's story of torture depicts a revolution far from over. Week in Review, Page 12
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
The prospects for democracy in the Arab world generate hopes and fears. Week in Review, Page 10

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2011

 CORRECTION:
A capsule summary on March 27 about Ana Matosantos, California's youngest budget director, misidentified her political party affiliation. Ms. Matosantos is a Democrat, not a Republican.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); POLITICS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); TALIBAN (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); GOVERNORS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); TERRORISM (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); SYRIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011



621 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section M2; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 95

LENGTH: 2684 words

HEADLINE: The High Life

BYLINE: By WELLS TOWER

 BODY:
Humboldt's atmospheric caprices echo the character of a county that proudly resists any consensus about what constitutes a sane or normal way of life. A five-hour drive north from San Francisco, Humboldt is a mostly rural coastal region a little less than twice the size of Delaware, inhabited by 129,000 or so artists, back-to-the-landers, outdoorsfolk, slow-food entrepreneurs and urban refugees who found the Upper Haight too staid.
The county is also home to a large community of people whose knack for growing high-quality marijuana has made ''Humboldt'' a sacred word to dope smokers worldwide. Cannabis cultivation is more or less rampant throughout the county, though the outdoor industrial-scale plantations lie mostly in southern Humboldt (''SoHum,'' to locals), where rough-hewn settlements give off an aura of people being up to something. A fair proportion of homes visible to highway traffic have additions built of plastic sheeting. Much of SoHum's population lives up rutted, hillside tracks where tourists, locals caution, would be most unwise to venture on their own. 
An hour up Route 101 sit Eureka and Arcata, Humboldt's largest towns (population 26,000 and 17,500, respectively), which feel more genially disposed toward outside guests. Eureka, the county seat, has yet to recover fully from its hard landing at the end of the county's fish and timber age. Shuttered storefronts, bail-bonds operations and check-cashing establishments sit between its attractively refurbished Old Town harbor front and an arresting stock of Victorian homes.
Arcata is a town with greater appeal, helped along by the countywide disdain for outside influence. A local ordinance limits the number of franchise restaurants to nine, and no chains, save an incongruous Bank of America, mar the handsomeness of Arcata's central plaza. I checked into the Hotel Arcata, a 96-year-old establishment in the heart of downtown. My unfussy room had a claw-foot tub and a piping hot space heater, and seemed a great bargain for $99. I went back to the desk and asked if I might stay on through the rest of the week, which, incidentally, would overlap with New Year's Eve. The desk clerk - ground down, I imagined, by her daily dealings with local free spirits and individualists - looked at me like I'd asked to crash for free on her couch.
''O.K.,'' she finally said. ''But you can't bring a bunch of crazy, noisy people back to your room.''
''I don't know any crazy, noisy people here,'' I told her.
''You're going to meet some, believe me,'' she said.
''Well, even if I do, I don't think I'll want to bring them home with me.''
''They can be very persuasive,'' she said.
On an alpine stretch of Route 299, heading into Trinity National Forest, plumes of fog rose from the hillsides, which resembled a sodden green carpet slung over a scalding radiator. Dark, confidential groves of Douglas fir and redwood crowded the little highway, emanating a kind of Narnian ominousness. A skeptical East Coast type by nature, I started having some newfound, Californian feelings about ''the energy'' of the forest. So I was in an unusually open frame of mind when I stopped at the village of Willow Creek, whose China Flat Museum and Bigfoot Collection is known to sasquatch enthusiasts worldwide.
The museum was closed for the winter, but one of its volunteers, a kindly retiree named Peggy McWilliams, was good enough to give me a tour of the place. ''Do I believe they're out there? You betcha,'' she offered without prompting. ''We get reports all the time. For example, a little while ago, search-and-rescue came down from Oregon looking for a missing 4-year-old boy. When they finally found him, all he would talk about was the big hairy man that had picked him up and sat him alongside the road. I doubt it was a hippie. A hippie probably would have carried him off.''
The collection, housed in a windowless rear chamber, was amply stocked with physical evidence collected over the years by Bigfoot observers local and far-flung. Arrayed in glass cases were reconstructed skulls, yellowed news clippings, dioramas, footprint casts and a plastic bag containing a few strands of wiry fur alongside the query ''Can you identify this hair?'' The footprint casts - taken nearby at Bluff Creek, the site of Roger Patterson and Robert Gimlin's famous 1967 film, whose footage of a shaggy creature is proof to believers in Bigfoot lore - were not enormously convincing. They looked like hoagie loaves with toes.
McWilliams wanted to be clear that she herself had never seen Bigfoot, and that only one thing about the creature was absolutely certain: if you see one, you should not tell a soul. ''The writers and researchers would be all over you,'' she said. ''They're absolute pests, and nobody needs that kind of disruption. It's best to keep quiet.''
I thanked McWilliams for the tip and told her I was off to the redwoods of southern Humboldt. ''Keep your eyes open,'' she advised. ''You might see a Bigfoot.''
No offense to Peggy McWilliams or the good people at the Bigfoot Field Researchers Organization, but pulling into Humboldt Redwoods State Park, I wondered: who needs a mythic ape when you've got redwood trees around?
Perennially fattened on a diet of Pacific Ocean fogs, many of the trees in the state park (and its counterpart in northern Humboldt, Redwood National Park) casually top 300 feet, and the oldest specimens have been growing for two millenniums. In my touristic career, I've grown numb to the presence of hammerhead sharks, giant tortoises, grizzly bears, blue-footed boobies and pilot whales, but in the awe department, coast redwoods seemed to have no point of diminishing returns. Each tree revealed some astounding new characteristic of girth, bark tone, branch anatomy or moss couture. The forest's crisp, misty air made breathing a thrilling novelty. It seemed to inhale itself. I tried not to think about a distressing spate of recent studies wondering how these trees will survive what looks to be a worsening, climate-change-related shortage of coastal fogs. Instead, I tried to marvel gratefully that there were still thousands of these trees standing, not just one on a museum lot enclosed by a velvet rope.
The trouble with redwood forests, though, is that they are hard on the human ego. You can't spend much time among all of that primordial rectilinearity without starting to feel disheveled, crooked and mortal. I'd had every intention of going for a hike, but you cannot maintain a pace staggering around with your neck craned, guffawing like Jed Clampett seeing his first skyscraper. Back at the car, the dashboard clock said it had taken me two hours to walk a mile.
Of the nearly two million acres of old-growth coastal redwoods that once covered central California to southern Oregon, less than 5 percent survived the past 150 years of logging, and about 80 percent of the remaining trees stand on protected lands. This is good news for the trees and their admirers but bad news for the timber industry, whose boom years petered out in the 1980s. The depletion of the timber stock, coupled with the exhaustion of northwestern salmon fisheries, has created something of an employment crisis for Humboldt County, or legal employment, anyway. Sound statistics on the issue don't exist, but anyone you'll meet in Humboldt will tell you that the county's economic backbone is unquestionably cannabis. Law enforcement officials estimate that as many as two in five Arcata homes contain a growing operation. A calculation by a Humboldt State University economist appraised the county's marijuana industry at about a half-billion dollars a year.
These days, what worries the county's farmers, trimmers, shippers and dealers isn't that they make their living on the far side of the law but that legalization and a consequent price dive are probably close at hand. Tellingly, Proposition 19, a 2010 ballot measure to legalize marijuana in California, didn't pass in Humboldt County. Already, provisions in California's medical marijuana law that permit card-carrying patients to keep small gardens have contributed to a 25 percent price drop in the past five years and continue to erode the competitive advantage of growers in the north. ''It's a sad thing to see,'' the local cannabis blogger Kym Kemp told me. ''The big grower pulling in $5 million on an acre might be able to survive, but the single mom keeping a half dozen plants to make ends meet, she probably won't make it.''
You hardly need D.E.A. training to catch on to Humboldt's open secret. Driving along county byways with the windows down, you may suddenly pass through banks of skunk-gland miasma. Many small towns consist of little more than a grocery and a horticultural supply store, selling such products as Buddha Bloom bat guano fertilizer and Humboldt Nutrients Ginormous Bloom Enhancer. Roadside billboards advertise sales on ''turkey oven bags,'' preferred by contraband expediters for their odor-suppressing properties.
If Humboldt's large-scale cannabis industry has a factory town, it's Garberville, an unprepossessing community not far from the Mendocino County border. Garberville has zero stoplights, two gun stores, a hemp-ware boutique and several real estate agencies whose acreage listings prominently advertise ''privacy'' and ''good water flow.'' Most of the stores on Garberville's main street are patronized by people paying in cash and about whom hang an identifiable smell. Stopping for coffee at an Internet cafe, I paused to watch a young couple with Carhartt jackets and grubby hands browsing beachfront rentals in Hawaii.
The upside of the great pools of black-market cash is a countywide surfeit of good restaurants, galleries and craft boutiques, not all of which specialize in redwood burls or drums. ''We've got more restaurants per capita than San Francisco,'' I was told by Hank Sims, the former editor of Humboldt's biggest weekly paper, The North Coast Journal. ''There are a lot of places that wouldn't be in business if not for pot money.''
One evening, I dined at Cecil's, the fanciest restaurant in Garberville, whose unusual market will apparently bear a steak topped with crab meat, shrimp and handpicked chanterelles for $72. I didn't get the steak. I got fried oysters remoulade and some smoked pork spring rolls I'd have eaten my weight in. While I was making my way through a superb fried chicken salad, a group of college-age kids took a table near mine. They wore camouflage hats and long-underwear shirts and looked like they'd been working hard all day. They got the steak.
Eager to know a little more about Humboldt's cannabis culture but somewhat spooked by Garberville's aura of the underworld, I headed back to Arcata to pay a visit to Mariellen Jurkovich. Jurkovich, a 58-year-old grandmother with dark hair and striking blue eyes, was a school board member and former real estate agent with Coldwell Banker, though now she is the director of the Humboldt Patient Resource Center, Arcata's oldest medical marijuana collective.
The dispensary occupies a former auto body shop two blocks from Arcata's central plaza and resembles a community center more than a controlled-substance dealership. Beyond selling marijuana, the H.P.R.C. offers classes in yoga, massage, dance and tai chi, and invites patients to help in its garden and learn the delicate art of cannabis cultivation. Contrary to her colleagues in the south, Jurkovich looks forward to a day when marijuana is legal, hoping it might draw more visitors to the remote county. Before Proposition 19's defeat, the H.P.R.C. and others in the cannabis sector had been looking forward to the introduction of a pot-related tourism industry. ''People could visit the collective, do some trimming, take some cooking classes and then go walk around in the redwood trees,'' Jurkovich said.
''It was said we were going to be the new Napa Valley of cannabis,'' said Tony Smithers, executive director of the Humboldt County Convention and Visitors Bureau. ''We took it very seriously, and it was an intriguing marketing challenge: how to do cannabis tourism while preserving our core branding as the most beautiful place in the world with the world's tallest trees. In the end, it was kind of a relief when [Proposition 19] didn't pass.''
All of the H.P.R.C.'s cannabis is grown on-site. Kevin Jodrey, the H.P.R.C.'s cultivation director, was good enough to give me a tour of the garden, which lay in a klieg-lit room just past the reception desk. Brushing past a pungent canopy of lush, serrated leaves, Jodrey went on amiably and with eye-crossing knowledgeability about plant genetics, the analgesic properties of different ''medicines'' and their observed effects on such maladies as cancer, AIDS, Alzheimer's and depression. As the conversation wore on, the room began to feel less like a pot farm than a research lab at Merck. ''What's this?'' I asked Jodrey, pausing at a plant with sugary foxtails that smelled pleasantly of grapefruit. ''Oh,'' he said. ''That's Green Crack.''
That night, I gorged enjoyably at Tomo, a first-rate sushi restaurant on the ground floor of the Hotel Arcata. Because it was the last evening of the year, it seemed important to have a night on the town. Up the street, at the Arcata Theatre, a gypsy jazz band was getting under way. The band was very good, but the crowd was going in for styles of West Coast whimsy irksome to a peevish East Coaster like myself. People in the throes of air-palming jam-band dances kept revolving in my personal space. Someone dressed in a dark shroud with a spray of foam swimming-pool noodles jutting from the top exhibited his or her liberty from hangups by painfully whacking the noodles into my and everybody's face. Soon, it was necessary to go.
Out on the crowded plaza, the ball had dropped, and the first drum circles of 2011 had formed. Youngsters in dreadlocks had scaled a statue of President McKinley, whose bronze pelvis was being ground from three sides. Describing the scene in my notebook prompted two separate people to come over and ask me if I was a cop, and that, like, according to the Constitution or something, I had to tell them if I was.
The night and I were getting old. I went to the hotel and was stopped at the door by the hotel employee who had days ago balked at extending my stay. Before she stepped aside, she examined my key, asked my name and quizzed me about which room I was staying in. It seemed to disappoint her that she couldn't catch me out as an impostor or a noisy lunatic, but in the end, she let me back inside.
ESSENTIALS: HUMBOLDT COUNTY, CALIF.
HOTELS Eureka Inn Aged Tudor-revival gem in mid-restoration. 518 Seventh Street, Eureka; (707) 497-6185; doubles from $80.Hotel Arcata Unfussy lodging on Arcata's downtown plaza. 708 Ninth Street, Arcata; (800) 344-1221; doubles from $85.Miranda Gardens Resort Charming cabins in Humboldt Redwoods State Park. 6766 Avenue of the Giants, Miranda; (707) 943-3011; doubles from $85.
RESTAURANTSCafe Brio Excellent European-style bistro, cafe and artisanal bakery. 791 G Street, Arcata; (707) 822-5922. Cecil's California Creole restaurant, co-owned by a former disciple of Emeril Lagasse. 773 Redwood Drive, Garberville; (707) 923-7007.Golden Harvest Cafe Hearty lunch and breakfast spots with an ample vegetarian menu. 1062 G Street, Arcata; (707) 822-8962; 1707 Allard Avenue, Eureka; (707) 442-1610.Lost Coast Brewery and Cafe Tasty pub fare, with a superior selection of locally brewed beers. 617 Fourth Street, Eureka; (707) 445-4480.Samoa Cookhouse Prix fixe chow hall cum timber boom museum. 908 Cookhouse Road, Samoa; (707) 442-1659.Tomo Inspired sushi in the Hotel Arcata. 708 Ninth Street, Arcata; (707) 822-1414.
SIGHTS AND ACTIVITIESHumboldt Redwoods State Park More than 53,000 acres of majestic trees along the Eel River. Highway 101. Willow Creek-China Flat Museum The place for Bigfoot fanatics. Intersection of Highways 299 and 96; open May through September or by appointment; (530) 629-2653.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Green giants: The Rockefeller Grove in the Humboldt Redwoods State Park.
House proud: The Victorian houses in Ferndale, one of Humboldt County's picturesque towns.
Exile on Main Street: Locals in Garberville, a southern Humboldt town with zero stoplights, two gun stores and a restaurant with a $72 steak dish.
 Wild water: Coastal rocks near the town of Trinidad, north of Arcata. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OLAF OTTON BECKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); CANNABIS (90%); ORDINANCES (78%); FRANCHISING (76%); RESTAURANTS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); RETAILERS (64%); POPULATION SIZE (58%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (53%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUREKA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



622 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: 'Good Faith' Problems

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
THE revamped Good Faith Estimate form, which arrived just over a year ago, has helped give home buyers and homeowners looking to refinance their mortgages a better understanding of their borrowing costs
But industry experts say the three-page, line-by-line disclosure -- which lenders must provide within three days of receiving a loan application -- still falls short of telling borrowers exactly what they will be paying. Some in the mortgage industry complain that it can even distort or obscure the true cost.
The new Good Faith Estimate form ''is better than it used to be, but it's not up to snuff,'' said Kathleen Day, a spokeswoman for the Center for Responsible Lending, a consumer advocacy group. ''There are things that need to be unbundled and made clearer,'' she said. 
The disclosure form, designed by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, became mandatory on Jan. 1, 2010, under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act that emerged from the mortgage crisis.
With the exception of certain fees, for services like title services and appraisals, lenders are bound to the costs they quote, notably those for origination and interest-rate locks.
The form also lists the services a borrower can shop around for, versus those selected by the lender. Charges for required services that the lender selects or that the borrower shops around for, using companies selected by the lender, can rise no more than 10 percent at closing. (An exception is fees for escrowed amounts and property taxes, costs that are beyond the control of the lender.)
The revised form, according to a consumer compliance alert issued last year by the Philadelphia branch of the Federal Reserve, is intended ''to make the mortgage loan process more transparent to consumers, with fewer surprises at closing'' in the form of higher fees.
But there are notable gaps.
The form, for example, does not break out seller-paid costs, such as transfer taxes, which are levied when a property changes hands, instead lumping those costs into the ''total estimated settlement charges'' figure at the bottom. (Transfer taxes, based on the sales price, vary by state; the combined New York State and city rate is 1.825 percent.)
As a result, borrowers are sometimes unknowingly looking at a larger final figure than they will actually have to pay. Nor does the new form account for down payments in the ''total estimated settlement charges'' column. Borrowers might then be looking at a smaller final number than they will need to pay.
This lack of clarity, according to Melissa Key, a spokeswoman for the Mortgage Bankers Association, can lead to delayed closings or even the loss of a locked interest rate.
Amid the uncertainty, a growing number of lenders have been furnishing consumers with their own custom ''work sheets'' as a supplement to -- or in a few cases, in lieu of -- the required disclosures, according to Brian Sullivan, a spokesman for the federal housing department. They were being used ''to weed out window shoppers and borrowers who haven't provided enough information for the lender to be required to furnish a G.F.E.,'' he said.
But these work sheets may differ from the Good Faith form, further adding to the confusion.
Because Good Faith Estimates are binding on the lender, Mr. Sullivan said, some lenders appeared to be violating the new lending regulations by refraining from issuing the estimates, to avoid being locked into costs. He said that HUD would ''intercede on the consumer's behalf'' if asked by the borrower, but only after lenders had been given a chance to correct any violations.
Still, the form may get yet another overhaul, by the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, itself part of the regulatory overhaul signed by President Obama last July. The bureau has said that it is considering revising the revised G.F.E. form to make all costs clearer to the consumer.
Correction: April 10, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Mortgages column on March 27, about the new Good Faith Estimate disclosure form for borrowing costs, misstated the transfer tax for residential property in New York City. The combined state and city tax is 1.825 percent for properties over $500,000, not 3.025 percent, which is the combined transfer tax on such commercial property.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TITLE ABSTRACT & SETTLEMENT SERVICES (78%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); US REAL ESTATE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES ACT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (68%); CITIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2011



623 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Hoping For Arab Mandelas

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
With Libya, Yemen, Bahrain and Syria now all embroiled in rebellions, it is not an exaggeration to suggest that the authoritarian lid that has smothered freedom in the Arab world for centuries may be coming off all 350 million Arab peoples at once. Personally, I think that is exactly what is going to happen over time. Warm up the bus for all the Arab autocrats -- and for you, too, Ahmadinejad. As one who has long believed in the democracy potential for this part of the world, color me both really hopeful and really worried about the prospects.
I am hopeful because the Arab peoples are struggling for more representative and honest government, which is what they will need to overcome their huge deficits in education, freedom and women's empowerment that have been holding them back. But getting from here to there requires crossing a minefield of tribal, sectarian and governance issues. 
The best way to understand the potential and pitfalls of this transition is to think about Iraq. I know that the Iraq war and the democracy-building effort that followed have been so bitterly divisive in America that no one wants to talk about Iraq. Well, today we're going to talk about Iraq because that experience offers some hugely important lessons for how to manage the transition to democratic governance of a multisectarian Arab state when the iron lid is removed.
Democracy requires 3 things: citizens -- that is, people who see themselves as part of an undifferentiated national community where anyone can be ruler or ruled. It requires self-determination -- that is, voting. And it requires what Michael Mandelbaum, author of ''Democracy's Good Name,'' calls ''liberty.''
''While voting determines who governs,'' he explained, ''liberty determines what governments can and cannot do. Liberty encompasses all the rules and limits that govern politics, justice, economics and religion.''
And building liberty is really hard. It will be hard enough in Middle East states with big, homogenous majorities, like Egypt, Tunisia and Iran, where there is already a powerful sense of citizenship and where national unity is more or less assumed. It will be doubly hard in all the other states, which are divided by tribal, ethnic and sectarian identities and where the threat of civil war is ever present.
Not one was more divided in that way than Iraq. What did we learn there? First, we learned that when you removed the authoritarian lid the tensions between Iraqi Kurds, Shiites and Sunnis erupted as each faction tested the other's power in a low-grade civil war. But we also learned that alongside that war many Iraqis expressed an equally powerful yearning to live together as citizens. For all of the murderous efforts by Al Qaeda to trigger a full-scale civil war in Iraq, it never happened. And in Iraq's last election, the candidate who won the most seats, a Shiite, Ayad Allawi, ran on a multisectarian platform with Sunnis. Lesson: While these tribal identities are deeply embedded and can blow up at anytime, there are also powerful countertrends in today's more urbanized, connected, Facebooked Middle East.
''There is a problem of citizenship in the Arab world,'' said Michael Young, the Lebanese author of ''The Ghosts of Martyr's Square,'' ''but that is partly because these regimes never allowed their people to be citizens. But despite that, you can see how much the demonstrators in Syria have been trying to stay nonviolent and speak about freedom for the whole nation.''
Lesson two: What was crucial in keeping the low-grade civil war in Iraq from exploding, what was crucial in their writing of their own Constitution for how to live together, and what was crucial in helping Iraqis manage multiple fair elections was that they had a credible neutral arbiter throughout this transition: the U.S.
America played that role at a staggering cost, and not always perfectly, but played it we did. In Egypt, the Egyptian Army is playing that arbiter role. Somebody has to play it in all these countries in revolt, so they can successfully lay the foundations of both democracy and liberty. Who will play that role in Libya? In Syria? In Yemen?
The final thing Iraq teaches us is that while external arbiters may be necessary, they are not sufficient. We're leaving Iraq at the end of the year. Only Iraqis can sustain their democracy after we depart. The same will be true for all the other Arab peoples hoping to make this transition to self-rule. They need to grow their own arbiters -- their own Arab Nelson Mandelas. That is, Shiite, Sunni and tribal leaders who stand up and say to each other what Mandela's character said about South African whites in the movie ''Invictus'': ''We have to surprise them with restraint and generosity.''
This is what the new leaders of these Arab rebellions will have to do -- surprise themselves and each other with a sustained will for unity, mutual respect and democracy. The more Arab Mandelas who emerge, the more they will be able to manage their own transitions, without army generals or outsiders. Will they emerge? Let's watch and hope. We have no other choice. The lids are coming off.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); IRAQ WAR (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); RELIGION (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); BAHRAIN (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (91%); SYRIA (90%); EGYPT (79%); TUNISIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



624 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Honest Numbers and Their Maker

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH LESLY STEVENS. 
estevens@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Elizabeth Lesly Stevens writes a column for The Bay Citizen.
With his nerdy eyeglasses, square jaw and unfashionable fealty to dark suits in a business-casual city, Benjamin Rosenfield is the Clark Kent of San Francisco City Hall.
Mr. Rosenfield, the city's earnest young controller, holds the possibly impossible job of keeping the city solvent in the face of an estimated $380 million budget deficit and a bitter political battle over ballooning employee costs. But with his almost messianic belief that honest numbers can pave the way for a ''right'' answer to the city's budget crisis, he may yet emerge as Superman.
Mr. Rosenfield, 37, is a public servant in the old sense of the term, and sui generis at San Francisco's rough-and-tumble City Hall. Everyone trusts him, and he is regarded as incapable of lying or proffering a number tweaked for political purposes. 
With such a yawning gap between the city's financial obligations and its revenue, there is only so much that any executive-branch bureaucrat, however capable and politically skilled, can do. Mr. Rosenfield is not a policy maker and cannot unilaterally decree cuts or raise revenue. His role is to work behind the scenes, as a financial consigliere, using his deep knowledge of how the city's finances actually work to prod the mayor and supervisors in directions that will produce significant results.
Mr. Rosenfield is ''a true believer that government needs to do good,'' said Edward M. Harrington, his former boss and predecessor as controller, who is now head of the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission.
''Not that people in government lie, but he can actually, physically, not have that happen,'' Mr. Harrington said.
When his fellow city executives put forth financial untruths, Mr. Harrington said, ''Ben gets physically uncomfortable. He fidgets; his face turns red. He has a physical reaction when someone is not telling the truth. It just doesn't sit with him.''
That is not to say that Mr. Rosenfield is naive. The numbers may not ''lie,'' but he is more aware than anyone else how malleable they can be.
Take the current debate raging around pension reform. With a union-city working group toiling on a consensus proposal, and Jeff Adachi, the public defender, readying another contentious ballot initiative, Mr. Rosenfield is striving to produce numbers for all parties that will provide rare and bracing clarity.
''Better information, numbers without bias to all participants, leads to better outcomes,'' he said in an interview.
He cited, for example, a seemingly hard-knuckle proposal for capping pensions for city workers at about $100,000. Having studied the matter, Mr. Rosenfield says this would yield just $1 million in savings by 2016. With the city's pension bill forecast to be $674 million by that year, such initiatives are all but meaningless for a numbers guy, and suggest that the policy makers need to do a lot better.
Mr. Rosenfield's journey to his present post was serendipitous. Raised in Chicago, he cut his teeth in city politics in notoriously corrupt Providence, R.I., while he was still an undergraduate at Brown. As a 23-year-old, he wrote a letter to San Francisco's mayor at the time, Willie L. Brown Jr., asking for an internship. Four years later, he was the mayor's budget director. In 2008, he was appointed to a 10-year term as controller.
In his quiet, nonconfrontational way, Mr. Rosenfield insists almost as a point of personal honor that San Francisco is in no danger of bankruptcy. When asked about Mayor Edwin Lee's recent comment that rising employee costs, if unchecked, could tilt the city into insolvency, Mr. Rosenfield shook his head in dismay.
''There is no way that San Francisco goes bankrupt,'' he said. ''As costs increase, services are reduced. The debt service will be paid.''
That services for residents could, in theory, be reduced to zero to cover debt and retiree costs is not Mr. Rosenfield's chief worry. His job is to keep San Francisco Inc. solvent and its debt-rating high.
It would seem to be a thankless grind. But Mr. Rosenfield views his job with Clark Kent-like equanimity: ''I find the current situation intellectually interesting.''
But he is human, after all, and at the end of the day he goes home to his wife and two young daughters at their house in the city. So he is not immune to the worries that dog everyone with an economic stake in the city's economic viability. Because right now, things do look grim.
''As a San Franciscan,'' he acknowledges, ''it is alarming.''
For Clark Kent, that's pretty bleak stuff.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''There is no way that San Francisco goes bankrupt,'' Benjamin Rosenfield says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADITHYA SAMBAMURTHY/THE BAY CITIZEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (89%); MAYORS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); BALLOTS (71%); REFERENDUMS (60%); INTERVIEWS (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



625 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Muni Chief Under Fire For Record And Absences

BYLINE: By ZUSHA ELINSON. 
zelinson@baycitizen.org

 BODY:
Last week, Nathaniel Ford, the chief executive of the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency, was in a familiar place: not San Francisco.
Mr. Ford, who has headed the troubled transit agency for five years, was in Washington D.C. for a conference -- and to find out if he had landed the top spot at the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority.
He had not. 
Meanwhile, local leaders are questioning more loudly than ever his commitment to the city and its fleet of aging buses and trolleys.
Last year, Mr. Ford was out of the office a lot: 53 workdays, or almost 11 weeks. According to a schedule provided by the agency, Mr. Ford took 31 vacation days; he attended conferences for the American Public Transportation Association during 11 workdays; he also went to China in November with a California delegation.
''That thing about people saying I'm not here -- I'm always here,'' Mr. Ford said in a recent interview. ''This job is 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.''
Mr. Ford is away more than some other top government officials. When George Gascon was the San Francisco police chief, for example, he took seven days of vacation in 2010, according to his schedule, and attended conferences for 24 working days.
''I'm sure that Nat puts in more than eight hours when he is there,'' said Tom Radulovich, executive director of Livable City, a transit advocacy organization in San Francisco. ''But I think when your agency's hurting, it doesn't help to be absent that much.''
Muni, which carries 700,000 passengers a day, has been ailing. The state is investigating the agency over safety violations relating to track repairs. The system's on-time performance dropped last quarter after peaking early last year at 75 percent, which was still short of the voter-mandated 85 percent. David Chiu, president of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, has called for a wide-ranging hearing into Muni's troubles.
Transit advocates say Mr. Ford, whose $308,000 salary makes him one of the city's highest-paid executives, is not to blame for all of Muni's ills. The agency is struggling financially; last year it lost $80 million in state financing. And Mr. Ford is buffeted by the fleeting and conflicting wishes of the Muni board, the Board of Supervisors and, most of all, the mayor.
''He doesn't have the political support,'' Mr. Radulovich said. ''So what you end up having is these short-term tactics to try to keep the agency afloat'' without making anyone angry.
Mr. Ford has been credited with devising a comprehensive transit plan for the city, opening new Muni lines and adopting an innovative system for parking charges that reduces congestion.
Now the Muni board is meeting behind closed doors to discuss whether to keep Mr. Ford or buy out his contract.
If the Washington position were to become an option again (his name could still be considered in a new search), Mr. Ford said he had not decided what he would do.
In his office overlooking busy Van Ness Avenue on Monday, he reeled off Muni's accomplishments. But the normally polished Mr. Ford was more distracted than normal, at times trailing off as he stared at the traffic below.
''Where am I?'' Mr. Ford said, as he paced around his office. ''I'm here, focused on the M.T.A.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MAYORS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); AIRPORT OPERATION (71%); CIVIL AVIATION (57%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (56%)

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN WASHINGTON AIRPORTS AUTHORITY (57%); AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION ASSOCIATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



626 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: A Minimum Wage Increase

 BODY:
As the nation grapples with a jobs crisis and unemployment hovers near 9 percent, it is easy for policy makers to forget the plight of those who work but earn very little. There are about 4.4 million workers earning the minimum wage or less, according to government statistics. This amounts to about 6 percent of workers paid by the hour. They need a raise. 
Today, a worker laboring 40 hours a week nonstop throughout the year for the federal minimum wage could barely keep a family of two above the federal poverty line. Though it rose to $7.25 an hour in 2009, up $2.10 since 2006, the minimum wage is still lower than it was 30 years ago, after accounting for inflation. It amounts to about $1.50 an hour less, in today's money, than it did in 1968, when Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert Kennedy were killed, Richard Nixon was elected president and the economy was less than a third of its present size.
The minimum wage has many opponents among big business and Congressional Republicans. In Nevada, the Las Vegas Chamber of Commerce is pushing to repeal the state's minimum wage, a whopping $8.25 an hour. Representative Darrell Issa, the California Republican, has proposed a bill in the House that would effectively cut the minimum wage in states where it was higher than the federal threshold by allowing employers to count health benefits toward wages.
Opponents argue that raising the minimum wage would inevitably lead to higher unemployment, prompting companies to cut jobs and decamp to cheaper labor markets. It is particularly bad, the argument goes, to raise it in a weak labor market. Yet with unemployment likely to remain painfully high for years to come, this argument amounts to a promise that the working poor will remain poor for a long time.
What's more, we know now that the argument is grossly overstated. Over the past 15 years, states and cities around the country have rushed ahead of the federal government to impose higher minimum wages. Economists analyzing the impact of the increases on jobs have concluded that moderate increases have no discernible impact on joblessness. Employers did not rush off to cheaper labor markets in the suburbs or across state lines for a simple reason: that costs money too.
The most recent research, by John Schmitt and David Rosnick at the Center for Economic and Policy Research, found that San Francisco's minimum wage jump to $8.50 in 2004 -- well above the state minimum of $6.75 -- improved low-wage workers' incomes and did not kill jobs. An even bigger jump in Santa Fe, N.M., the same year -- from $5.15 to $8.50 -- had a similar effect.
Despite evidence to the contrary, businesses and Republicans may keep pushing against the minimum wage -- using the jobs crisis now to clinch their argument. They should be disregarded, because their argument is wrong and the United States is too rich to tolerate such an underclass.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); STATISTICS (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%)

PERSON: DARRELL E ISSA (58%); RICHARD NIXON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



627 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2284 words

HEADLINE: The World According to Tim Ferriss

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
AUSTIN, Tex.
TIM FERRISS is weaving his way through the Austin Convention Center, up escalators, past coffee stands, through a makeshift bookstore. At nearly every turn, young bespectacled men with Silicon Valley dreams approach, showering him with one-liners like ''Dude, you changed my life.''
It's Day One of the annual South by Southwest Interactive conference, where Mr. Ferriss -- a self-described ''lifestyle designer'' and ''meticulous data cruncher'' -- is promoting his new manifesto, ''The 4-Hour Body: An Uncommon Guide to Rapid Fat-Loss, Incredible Sex, and Becoming Superhuman,'' between sessions about social gaming and NASA's use of Twitter.
Bromance is in the air. 
''I just want to say your books have really made an impact,'' stammers Brandon Gamm, an aspiring entrepreneur who instantly recognized Mr. Ferriss's shaved head and muscled, compact frame as he walked by a cluster of cafe tables. ''I've got butterflies.''
If you're a Ferriss novice, here's a primer: at 33, he's written two best-selling books, speaks five languages, is the first American to hold a Guinness record in tango spins and is one of only a handful of foreigners to have ever practiced the ancient art of yabusame (Japanese horseback archery).
A Twitter-age savant, he's made a career of teaching readers how to achieve personal goals using the least amount of time and effort. His occasionally off-the-wall, even polarizing, lessons include how to gain 34 pounds of muscle in 28 days, master a foreign language in three to six months and increase fat loss by placing ice packs on your neck. In freewheeling YouTube videos, he proffers advice on how to use chopsticks, survive a physical attack, tie a Windsor knot, deftly remove the shell of a hard-boiled egg and efficiently pack a suitcase (complete with odor- and bacteria-resistant underwear).
Appealing to a generation awash in sound bites, Twitter and the rapid-fire exchange of information, he holds out the promise that if you follow a simple set of dictates, it is possible to ''smash fear,'' ''learn anything'' and ''have it all.'' In geek speak, he's a ''life hacker,'' one who has collected both ardent devotees and harsh disparagers. In 2008, Wired magazine asked its readers to vote for self-promoter of the year. The winner? ''Timothy Ferriss by a landslide,'' the article said.
Mr. Ferriss (not to be confused with the science writer of the same name) first came to national attention in 2007 with the publication of his self-help-cum-business book, ''The 4-Hour Workweek: Escape 9-5, Live Anywhere, and Join the New Rich,'' which was rejected by 26 now-rueful publishers. Four years later, it's still on The New York Times hardcover business best-seller list.
Mr. Ferris attributes much of that success to timing. Twitter had just gone mainstream. Consumers, particularly Silicon Valley types, were awakening to the idea that there would always be more information than attention or hours in the day. Mr. Ferriss, positioning himself somewhere between Jack Welch and a Buddhist monk, offered solutions to what he calls the ''time-famine phenomenon.'' In the process, he exposed cracks in the seemingly sacred Baby Boomer model of life, where work is supreme and travel and hobbies are deferred until retirement.
''Managing that pain and finding solutions was a very high priority for people at the exact same time my book came out,'' Mr. Ferriss said last month while driving to his house in San Francisco.
His thoughts on simplicity and efficiency are informed by an economic principle known as Pareto's law, which posits that about 80 percent of the results of any endeavor come from just 20 percent of the effort and time put in. Yet his broader point is that streamlining the little things frees up time to pursue more meaningful ambitions.
Four years later, with Americans even more burdened by information overload, these ideas seem increasingly relevant. Take one of the more tantalizing teachings in ''The 4-Hour Workweek'': how to escape the crush of e-mail. Mr. Ferriss advises setting up an automatic e-mail reply that says in an effort to get work done, you'll only be checking your in-box twice a day, at noon and 4 p.m.
Even better, last month while he was on a four-week vacation to Colombia, Panama and Jordan, anyone who sent an e-mail message to Mr. Ferriss received his ''nuclear'' response. It begins: ''Thank you for your email. Sadly, it will be deleted. To regain sanity, I am taking a break from e-mail until March. If still relevant, please email me again in the month of March.''
Another Ferriss efficiency strategy: hire ''virtual assistants'' from Internet companies like Your Man in India and AskSunday who, for $4 to $25 an hour, will perform all of your time-sucking tasks -- be it online research or paying your bills -- freeing you to pursue more significant goals.
Mr. Ferriss regularly presents this sort of advice on his blog, FourHourWorkweek.com/blog, and in appearances at places like Google, Facebook and the Harvard School of Public Health. A smooth marketer who cultivated relationships with influential bloggers to make his first book a hit, he's also an adviser to companies like StumbleUpon, the Web site that enables users to discover content based on personal preferences.
''It's ironic that he wrote 'The 4-Hour Workweek,' '' said Garrett Camp, 32, StumbleUpon's founder and chief executive. ''He's the exact opposite of that.''
BORN in Southampton and raised in East Hampton, N.Y., Mr. Ferriss had his first taste of globe-trotting in high school when he spent an academic year in Tokyo as part of a student exchange program. By junior year, he was eyeing Princeton because it had a strong East Asian studies program, but his school guidance counselor said he had no hope of getting in.
''It was really demoralizing,'' Mr. Ferriss said. ''I fortunately am wired such that I got really pissed and wanted to prove them wrong.'' He knew that in terms of SAT scores and grades, he couldn't be better than other applicants. But he could be different. ''So I focused my essays on things like going to a sumo practice in Japan as a foreigner,'' he said, ''and what I learned from that.''
It worked: in 1995 he arrived at Princeton, ultimately majoring in East Asian studies. (Neuroscience was his first choice -- until he learned he'd have to bleed rats to death before dissecting their brains.) Sherwood Forlee, 31, a college friend, said Mr. Ferriss was obsessed with many of the subjects that consume him today: languages, combat sports, speed reading. Before he knew how to tango, he was break dancing.
After graduation, Mr. Ferriss moved to California, taking a job in sales at a data storage company. Frustrated by his salary and what he considered to be inefficiencies at the company, he began spending his days surfing the Web and building his own Internet business. About a year later, he was laid off, yet by then he had founded a sports nutrition supplements company. By 2004 he says he was making more than $40,000 a month -- but he was working around the clock. That is, until his girlfriend presented him with a plaque that said, ''Business hours end at 5 p.m.!''
As Mr. Ferriss put it: ''That was her 'Dear John' letter.''
Thus it dawned on a young Tim Ferriss that income had little value without time. So he decided to rethink his business. He bought a one-way ticket to Europe hoping to gain some clarity. Instead he had a nervous breakdown.
''Because I did not know what to do with myself,'' Mr. Ferriss said, sitting on the carpeted floor of a quiet hallway in the convention center. ''My identity and my activities had been so solely occupied by business for so long.''
Eventually, he figured out how to streamline his company while also bouncing from city to city: London, Galway, Berlin, Buenos Aires. By the time he returned to the United States, he had overhauled his methodologies -- and had begun writing a best seller.
INSIDE a ballroom at the Austin Convention Center, Mr. Ferriss stood on a stage beside a replica of five pounds of fat, telling an audience of about 2,500 that biology isn't destiny. (When he spoke there in 2007, he was an unknown, talking to about 150 attendees.)
The crowd swung between giggles and gasps as Mr. Ferriss showed video footage he shot himself: doctors in Cape Town were sliding a biopsy tube the size of a pencil into his thigh. One of Mr. Ferriss's grosser self-experiments, it showed the extraction of tissue samples to analyze muscle fibers and endurance enzymes. When the tube was removed, a bleeding Mr. Ferriss looked into the camera, smiled wide and observed that they had just made ''Tim Tartare.''
The man who couldn't experiment on rats in college loves to experiment on himself. Among the devices in his home: a Zeo headband (to monitor brain waves and sleep cycles), a pulse oximeter (to check the oxygen saturation of his blood), a glucometer (to track blood sugar) and a kitchen timer (for many experiments, including breath-holding, which he can do for more than three minutes thanks to tutelage from the illusionist David Blaine).
''I push myself into the realm of the absurd so that whatever my audience considers impossible suddenly by comparison seems plausible and achievable,'' Mr. Ferriss said. ''If I'm willing to inject myself with stem cells flown in from Israel, maybe doing five minutes of hip flexor stretches twice a week isn't too much to ask.''
Mr. Ferriss's new book is a health and fitness tome that discusses how to triple testosterone; work out with kettle bells (Mr. Ferriss lifts a 106-pound version called the Beast); even benefit from his, er, research on the female orgasm. He claims that with practice it's possible to achieve 15 minutes of repeated orgasm; the area to focus on is ''between 1 and 2 p.m. on the clitoris.''
Many people, even critics, agree that Mr. Ferriss is impassioned. He's considered a marketing crackerjack. And he's at the forefront of the genre of self-experimentation writing. So what is it about him that drives some people nuts?
''Tim just is all about Tim,'' said Penelope Trunk, the author of ''The Brazen Careerist: The New Rules for Success,'' who often writes about work at Blog.penelopetrunk.com. She met Mr. Ferriss at South by Southwest in 2007 when he was courting bloggers to read his first book.
Some readers agree with her, which seems to stem from the audacious tone of his writing. In a review of ''The 4-Hour Body'' in The New York Times, Dwight Garner wrote that the book ''reads as if The New England Journal of Medicine had been hijacked by the editors of the SkyMall catalog.'' Mr. Ferriss's vibe, he said, is: ''I'm Superbad, bro, and I have dimples. You're a mole person who, if you become an angel investor in my books, might someday touch the hem of my Speedo.''
Of the new book's approximately 1,200 reviews on Amazon, most are positive. (About 100 are not.) Bloggers and some Amazon critics suspect, though, that Mr. Ferriss has had virtual assistants post some of those glowing reviews. Mr. Ferriss said there's no truth to that, or need for it. He said his blog has about a million unique visitors a month. ''Even 1,000 reviews would represent just one-tenth of 1 percent of my readers,'' he said, adding that he sent out more than 1,000 advance copies of the book to friends and colleagues, all of whom he asked to write an Amazon review, whether or not they liked the book.
Critics have also questioned the science behind the book's more unusual suggestions, be it gorging yourself once a week or eliminating fruit (yet not wine) from your diet. As for a 15-minute orgasm: ''My first impression is wow,'' said Lori A. Brotto, a psychologist who studies female sexual health and is an associate professor in the department of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of British Columbia. She said there are few studies on the subject, but one defined a ''long'' orgasm as one lasting 20 seconds to 2 minutes. Repeated orgasms could last longer.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Ferriss has a system for dealing with critics. Last year, he outlined it in a talk entitled ''Tim Ferriss Scam! Practical Tactics for Dealing with Haters.'' (Mr. Ferriss cleverly slipped ''scam'' into the title so that a Google search on his name and that word calls up his blog ahead of his detractors' pages; a perfect example of search engine optimization.)
Mr. Ferriss said he's learned he can't please everyone and that if he tried, he'd be boring -- and insane. So he focuses on the fans and embraces the adage, ''Living well is the best revenge.''
He appears to be doing so. This year, he plans to introduce a project to build 100 libraries or schools in 100 hours in developing countries. He's also exploring television opportunities, studying screenwriting, learning Arabic, training for an ultra-marathon and striving to perfect a back flip. Another thing he'd like to hack: a relationship. He's dating but doesn't have a girlfriend. ''A bunch of land with a big dog and a wife and a kid or two would be nice,'' he said.
Despite his efficiency, he feels a sense of urgency.
''I feel like I could very well be 14 minutes into my 15-minutes of fame,'' he said, sitting on a deck at the convention center in the dying sun. When a reporter suggested he didn't really believe that, he said he didn't take it for granted.
''Even in the best-case scenario of not having something intervene and cut your life short, you don't have that much time,'' he said. ''I do think that it can all be taken away in the blink of an eye.''
But not just yet. That night, fans surrounded him at an Austin bar, thrusting their cameras into the hands of a reporter, asking for photos with Mr. Ferriss. The only blink was the flash.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE BODY HACKER: A kettle bell workout is one of Tim Ferriss's strategies for getting in shape without long hours at the gym. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST1)
THE HUMAN EXPERIMENT: Tim Ferriss, top, with a fan at a South by Southwest Interactive conference last weekend
right, some of his lab equipment at his home in San Francisco
above, with a model of fat at the conference
left, his latest book. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BEN SKLAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BILL O'DONNELL/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (90%); BESTSELLERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); MULTILINGUALISM (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); BACTERIA (60%); ARCHERY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



628 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Calculating Luck

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
PERHAPS the only things more varied and numerous than the New York lottery games one can throw money at are regular players' strategies for choosing numbers. Whether it's Powerball or Take 5 or Mega Millions, everyone seems to have a surefire method. Some rely on dreams to furnish numbers; others consult the license plates of parked, or passing, cars. 
Leonardo de la Cruz, right, who owns a store two blocks from the world headquarters of the Lubavitcher movement in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, said 99 percent of his customers were Hasidic Jews. ''And 99 percent of them play 770,'' he said, a reference to the building's address, 770 Eastern Parkway. ''Always. That's their favorite pick.''
What these systems have in common is the gambler's belief that even chance encounters -- the glimpse of, say, a five-digit address on a building -- can be willfully turned to one's advantage; in other words, that good luck can be mined from ordinary ore. ''There's no such thing as an accident,'' said Dagoberto Juarez, who was buying a Quick Draw ticket at a Washington Heights bodega. ''Not if you're a player.''
Below, a look at a few players and their game faces. ALAN FEUER

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Legend Niles, 47: Unemployed PLAYING AT: Burgos Food Center, South Bronx DIGITS: I always play my sister's birth date and my mother's age, but if I'm feeling lucky, then I stop somebody on the street, a stranger, and I point at them and say, ''You, give me a number.'' Or I'll go to my family, saying, ''You give me a number. Now, you. Now, you.'' I change them up every two, three months. The numbers get old, you got to change them. And I never play the same number, in the same line, twice. That's the method to my madness. Every day, I get up and I say a prayer to God that God is blessed -- even if he don't let me win the lottery.
Stanley Anderson, 77: Retired welder PLAYING AT: Nightline Grocery Store, Crown Heights, Brooklyn DIGITS: I always play 1933 -- that's my birth year -- and 729, it's the day and month of my birthday. Then I play my holy numbers, too: 727, 728, 726. Why are they holy? Because I play them! Every once in a while, I'll play a license plate I've seen, but I mostly stick to the numbers I know, the ones I trust. WINNINGS: The biggest prize I ever hit was $1,700. That was last year, and I've been playing for a while now, for many, many years. ADVICE: The only advice I have is that you got to keep trying. Everything is gambling -- the horses are a gamble, life's a gamble. Either that, or stop playing. Actually, that's my best advice: 'Don't start.'
Jada Jaramillo, 35: Caterer PLAYING AT: Global Deli and Grocery, Ridgewood, Queens DIGITS: My kids' birthdays are usually what I'll play: 38 and 46, those are the days and months. HELP: Sometimes I'll let the clerk pick numbers for me, when I don't know what to play or don't want to play my normal numbers. He's a very lucky guy. You know, he won $50,000 once for someone else, just playing a ticket on the side.
Pamela Booth, 43: Service captain at a private club PLAYING AT: Lexington News shop, Upper East Side DIGITS: I have a lot of different numbers I play -- birthdays, anniversaries, sometimes I'll play a friend's age. And no, I won't reveal them
it's bad luck. Sometimes, I'll play the lucky number I get in a fortune cookie -- you know, where it's printed under your fortune? I never dream lottery numbers, though. I only dream one number at a time. If I wake up with six numbers in my head, I'd know there's something wrong with me.
Wesley Kot, 54: Repairman at a fitness center PLAYING AT: Global Deli and Grocery, Ridgewood, Queens DIGITS: I play my children's birthdays -- the month, the day, sometimes both: 7, 17, 27, 717, like that. They're all sevens
 seven is very lucky. But no kid is more lucky than another. Actually, none of them are lucky. WINNINGS: Twenty years ago, I did win $800 -- it was one year exactly, to the day, that we came to America from Poland. I spent it on my son's first communion, a big party. PLANS: If I win again, a big prize, this time I take it in an annual payment. No lump sum. Annual payment is the best life insurance policy you can have. Your family says, ''No, don't bend over to pick that up -- no, no, no.'' They want to make sure you live the whole 26 years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA KRISTAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES (90%); RELIGION (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



629 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: The Day The Debt Is Due

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard.

 BODY:
The following is a presidential
address to the nation -- to be
delivered in March 2026.
MY fellow Americans, I come to you today with a heavy heart. We have a crisis on our hands. It is one of our own making. And it is one that leaves us with no good choices.
For many years, our nation's government has lived beyond its means. We have promised ourselves both low taxes and a generous social safety net. But we have not faced the hard reality of budget arithmetic. 
The seeds of this crisis were planted long ago, by previous generations. Our parents and grandparents had noble aims. They saw poverty among the elderly and created Social Security. They saw sickness and created Medicare and Medicaid. They saw Americans struggle to afford health insurance and embraced health care reform with subsidies for middle-class families.
But this expansion in government did not come cheap. Government spending has taken up an increasing share of our national income.
Today, most of the large baby-boom generation is retired. They are no longer working and paying taxes, but they are eligible for the many government benefits we offer the elderly.
Our efforts to control health care costs have failed. We must now acknowledge that rising costs are driven largely by technological advances in saving lives. These advances are welcome, but they are expensive nonetheless.
If we had chosen to tax ourselves to pay for this spending, our current problems could have been avoided. But no one likes paying taxes. Taxes not only take money out of our pockets, but they also distort incentives and reduce economic growth. So, instead, we borrowed increasing amounts to pay for these programs.
Yet debt does not avoid hard choices. It only delays them. After last week's events in the bond market, it is clear that further delay is no longer possible. The day of reckoning is here.
This morning, the Treasury Department released a detailed report about the nature of the problem. To put it most simply, the bond market no longer trusts us.
For years, the United States government borrowed on good terms. Investors both at home and abroad were confident that we would honor our debts. They were sure that when the time came, we would do the right thing and bring spending and taxes into line.
But over the last several years, as the ratio of our debt to gross domestic product reached ever-higher levels, investors started getting nervous. They demanded higher interest rates to compensate for the perceived risk. Higher interest rates increased the cost of servicing our debt, adding to the upward pressure on spending. We found ourselves in a vicious circle of rising budget deficits and falling investor confidence.
As economists often remind us, crises take longer to arrive than you think, but then they happen much faster than you could have imagined. Last week, when the Treasury tried to auction its most recent issue of government bonds, almost no one was buying. The private market will lend us no more. Our national credit card has been rejected.
So where do we go from here?
Yesterday, I returned from a meeting at the International Monetary Fund in its new headquarters in Beijing. I am pleased to report some good news. I have managed to secure from the I.M.F. a temporary line of credit to help us through this crisis.
This loan comes with some conditions. As your president, I have to be frank: I don't like them, and neither will you. But, under the circumstances, accepting these conditions is our only choice.
We have to cut Social Security immediately, especially for higher-income beneficiaries. Social Security will still keep the elderly out of poverty, but just barely.
We have to limit Medicare and Medicaid. These programs will still provide basic health care, but they will no longer cover many expensive treatments. Individuals will have to pay for these treatments on their own or, sadly, do without.
We have to cut health insurance subsidies to middle-income families. Health insurance will be less a right of citizenship and more a personal responsibility.
We have to eliminate inessential government functions, like subsidies for farming, ethanol production, public broadcasting, energy conservation and trade promotion.
We will raise taxes on all but the poorest Americans. We will do this primarily by broadening the tax base, eliminating deductions for mortgage interest and state and local taxes. Employer-provided health insurance will hereafter be taxable compensation.
We will increase the gasoline tax by $2 a gallon. This will not only increase revenue, but will also address various social ills, from global climate change to local traffic congestion.
AS I have said, these changes are repellant to me. When you elected me, I promised to preserve the social safety net. I assured you that the budget deficit could be fixed by eliminating waste, fraud and abuse, and by increasing taxes on only the richest Americans. But now we have little choice in the matter.
If only we had faced up to this problem a generation ago. The choices then would not have been easy, but they would have been less draconian than the sudden, nonnegotiable demands we now face. Americans would have come to rely less on government and more on themselves, and so would be better prepared today.
What I wouldn't give for a chance to go back and change the past. But what is done is done. Americans have faced hardship and adversity before, and we have triumphed. Working together, we can make the sacrifices it takes so our children and grandchildren will enjoy a more prosperous future.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); MEDICARE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); POOR POPULATION (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); FAMILY (75%); BABY BOOMERS (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); MEDICAID (71%); GRANDPARENTS (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); BONDS (68%); BOND MARKETS (67%); INTEREST RATES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



630 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Inundated With News, Many Find It Difficult To Keep Up on Libya

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; Reporting was contributed by Robbie Brown from Atlanta, Ian Lovett from Los Angeles and Jacob Smilovitz from Ann Arbor and Dearborn, Mich.

 BODY:
DENVER -- Talk about the fog of war.
Many Americans find themselves scratching their heads about America's military intervention in Libya, and part of the reason, they say, can be summed up in one word: overload.
People interviewed across four states said that at a time when the world seems to stagger from one breathtaking news event to another -- rolling turmoil across the Middle East, economic troubles at home, disaster upon disaster in Japan -- the airstrikes on military targets in Libya can feel like one crisis too many. 
''Other headlines, other news,'' said Bob Britt, 70, a retired computer support manager, summing up the distractions as he watched a bank of television screens in the lobby of a Denver office building during his lunch break from jury duty.
Or maybe it is compassion fatigue.
Cara Vonderbruegge, 23, an event coordinator and actor in Los Angeles, said the earthquake and tsunami in Japan had simply absorbed all the attention and emotion she could spare these days. She feels remiss about that, she said, and plans to catch up soon on what she has missed about Libya.
''I'm still concerned about people in other parts of the world, but with everything that's going on in our lives, we only have so much time,'' Ms. Vonderbruegge said.
In a Gallup poll released on Monday, 47 percent of respondents said they approved of bombing strikes against the military government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the leader of Libya.
Support for military action usually surges in the early days of a conflict, but this was the weakest level of enthusiasm for any of the 10 United States military actions on which the Gallup Organization has sought public opinion in nearly three decades. It was also the highest proportion of people with no opinion, at 16 percent.
A survey by the Pew Research Center -- conducted partly before and partly after the bombing raids on Libya began on March 19 -- found that only 5 percent of respondents were following the events ''very closely.'' Fifty-seven percent said they were closely following the news about Japan.
''One day it's this story, and then, oh, more information comes out -- if there was one or two things going on, it would probably be easier to get caught up,'' said Kevin Kilgore, 34, who works at a smoking lounge in Dearborn, Mich. ''As one backs up to another that backs up to another that backs up to another, it's just really difficult.''
New forms of news sharing and communication on the Internet have perhaps compounded the noise-to-news ratio.
On one day in the week before American and coalition missiles began landing on Libyan military targets, for example, 14 percent of posts on Twitter contained the word ''Japan,'' according to media analysts at the Nielsen Company. In the babble of digital chat, that reflects a hugely significant thread of the global conversation, a Nielsen spokesman said.
Greater connection or familiarity with some parts of the world than others also plays a role.
Woody Wiginton, 45, a coffee roaster in Birmingham, Ala., who said he relied on Twitter as his main news source, said he knew Japan and the Japanese, with whom he does business. Libya feels much more remote.
''I don't know anyone who's been to Tripoli,'' he said of the Libyan capital. ''You just don't know anybody there. North Africa has always been this mysterious place.''
Some people said they had opinions and conclusions about Libya, but they worried that they were not getting enough information from news organizations to make those judgments feel sound. Some painted dark conspiracies about information being withheld; others cheerfully admitted that they were paying more attention to the college basketball tournament than to the no-fly zone over Libya.
''The main problem I have is because we just don't understand,'' said David Clark, 50, an out-of-work former Marine in Dearborn, who was having a beer with a friend on a recent evening. ''Who are we defending? Who's going to eventually take over that country? Do we know who we're supporting anymore? No, I don't believe we do.''
Some news analysts said they believed that the timing of the military strikes -- coming in the midst of a news blizzard and a presidential visit to Latin America last weekend -- was deliberate.
''The administration is gaming this,'' said Bruce A. Williams, a professor of media studies who teaches a course titled War and the Media at the University of Virginia. ''They don't want a lot of public attention.''
Others say that it is all about personal concentration -- and that Libya, however important it might be, has just not penetrated.
''Last night, Elizabeth Taylor was on TV, so that's why we started watching,'' said Mary Anne Parker, 30, a personal trainer in Los Angeles. She added, ''Living in L.A., when we saw a celebrity had died, that's the only reason we were watching the news.''
But then a segment about Libya came on. ''We saw what was going on after that and got into a big discussion about how all these young men were at the forefront of the fighting, and what were they fighting for?'' Ms. Parker said.
And some people admitted that they had tuned out entirely.
''I'm watching 'SportsCenter,' '' said Carl Nicholas, 34, who works at a Denver law firm and was having lunch in front of a television on Wednesday. ''You never hear of good stories in the news.''
Moataz Fattah, an associate professor of Middle Eastern politics and Islamic studies at Cairo University in Egypt and Central Michigan University, said he strongly supported military action in Libya, partly because he thought it sent a message to pro-democracy forces everywhere that America was on their side.
Will the campaign bring democracy to Libya itself?
''Not sure,'' Professor Fattah said.
Eric Heisser, 21, a student at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, said he was relying on friends to keep him in the loop on Libya.
''My roommates are kind of keeping me informed,'' he said. ''They have a little more time to watch Jon Stewart than I do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Roxanne Hancock, 50
Kevin Kilgore, 34
 Zena Fares, 22 (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX COLLINS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) CHARTS: Online Buzz About Foreign News: Percentage of posts mentioning Japan and Libya: (Source: The Nielsen Company) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); TSUNAMIS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%)

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



631 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By IHSAN TAYLOR

 BODY:
WHY TRANSLATION MATTERS, by Edith Grossman (Yale University, $16.) Comparing the translator's craft to that of the actor transforming a playwright's words in performance, Grossman, the celebrated translator of ''Don Quixote'' and works by Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Mario Vargas Llosa, addresses the inadequate treatment -- by publishers, reviewers and academics -- of translated literature in this country. 
SOLAR, by Ian McEwan (Anchor, $15.) In McEwan's morally engaging satire, a Nobel-winning physicist who's stumbling comfortably through middle age -- five times married, a glutton for food, sex and praise -- sends an innocent man to jail and cashes in on another scientist's plans for stopping global warming.
SUPREME POWER: Franklin Roosevelt vs. the Supreme Court, by Jeff Shesol (Norton, $18.95.) Shesol's account of the ''court packing'' controversy of Roosevelt's second term includes revealing portraits of the ''nine old men,'' as opponents of the Supreme Court described them, and of Roosevelt's anguish over a conservative-/dominated court that had struck down one New Deal law after another.
A THREAD OF SKY, by Deanna Fei (Penguin, $16.) This graceful first novel takes three generations of women on a tour of self-discovery in their ancestral China. Fei entwines the family's narrative with harrowing passages about the Rape of Nanjing and the oppression of early Chinese immigrants to America.
RUSSIA AGAINST NAPOLEON, (Penguin, $22.) Lieven, a professor of history at the London School of Economics, is himself a descendant of Russian generals who fought Napoleon. Here he chronicles Napoleon's invasion of Russia in 1812 -- and Russia's triumphant advance across Europe just over a year later -- from a distinctly Russian perspective, concentrating on the men who led the Russian Army to victory.
THE THOUSAND AUTUMNS OF JACOB DE ZOET, by David Mitchell (Random House, $15.) Mitchell's historical novel of forbidden love meticulously reconstructs Edo-era Japan. It's 1799 and Jacob de Zoet, a wide-eyed Dutch clerk, wants to save enough money to win the hand of his fiancee back in Holland. But he is soon enchanted by Orito Aibagawa, an independent-minded midwife who is sold to a powerful warlord to settle her family's debts. ''It's a novel of ideas,'' our reviewer, Dave Eggers, said, ''of longing, of good and evil and those who fall somewhere in between.''
MARRY HIM: The Case for Settling for Mr. Good Enough, by Lori Gottlieb (New American Library, $15.) Interviewing, among others, therapists, members of the clergy, and both single and married people, Gottlieb argues that many women today end up alone because they hold men to unreasonably high standards.
THE MAN FROM BEIJING, by Henning Mankell. Translated by Laurie Thompson (Vintage Crime/Black Lizard, $15.) Mankell, the author of the police procedural series featuring Detective Kurt Wallander, opens this stand-alone thriller -- which spans two centuries and four continents -- with the discovery of 19 dead bodies in a fictional Swedish town.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HISTORY (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLISHING (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); MARRIAGE (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (54%); ARMIES (51%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); RELIGION (50%); MIDWIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JIANGSU, CHINA (54%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



632 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: Time to Think Small

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
WHEN New York's real estate market was at its dizziest height, $1 million studios had become routine and buyers with less than $250,000 to spend were almost surely headed out of Manhattan, perhaps even to another state.
But in a clear sign that the city's recovery is still elusive, the studio market has gone soft again -- just as it did in the last recession. Prices have dipped to 2005 levels, making it possible to find studios in Manhattan in the $200,000s -- lots of them. And they don't all face a brick wall or involve a lengthy hike to the subway.
The average price for studios dropped to $404,326 in 2010, from a high of $500,479 in 2008, according to the Douglas Elliman Report, an analysis of the decade's sales data. A recent search of Manhattan listings on The New York Times real estate site and on Streeteasy.com found close to 200 studios available for $300,000 or less. An article about studios in The Times in 2009, before the market had bottomed out, found only a handful of studios in that price range. 
If now is a good time to buy a studio, though, the converse must also be true: it's not a great time to be selling one, especially if the seller hopes to get a high price. ''It's been years since we've seen studios in prime neighborhoods priced this low,'' said Jill Sloane, an executive vice president of Halstead Property who has a Murray Hill studio listed at $285,000. ''Studios are hard to move right now.''
She and other brokers say that while there will always be first-time buyers hunting for studios, many in this pool are now reaching instead for one-bedrooms, whose extra space will make them livable for longer than a studio. One-bedroom prices, too, have dropped -- by nearly 20 percent -- making them affordable to more people.
Studios in recent years accounted for about 17 percent of all apartment sales in a year, but their market share dipped to 11 percent in 2010, according to data provided by Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel and a market analyst for Prudential Douglas Elliman. The last time the market share for studios dropped by such a high percentage was two decades ago, when it fell to 9 percent in 1991, from 15 percent in 1990.
''Market share for studios tends to drop off when conditions are weak,'' Mr. Miller said. On the flip side, he added, ''when prices are rising, studio sales increase as people get priced out of the larger units, and they buy studios because that's all they can afford.''
Many of today's lower-priced studios are in co-ops, which can have strict policies against subletting and may not allow pieds-a-terre or buyers who need financial help from family or friends. The restrictions narrow the buyer pool, forcing owners to reduce asking prices. Still, studios in the lower price range, especially in sought-after neighborhoods, are more than likely to have a drawback or two.
Rado Varchola, a senior vice president of Citi Habitats, has a studio at 92 Horatio Street, in the West Village, that came on the market nearly a year ago at $399,000 and is now listed at $300,000. In a coveted area, the apartment is also in an elevator building with a live-in superintendent. Maintenance is $676 (plus an $80-a-month assessment until the end of 2011). But it only has about 330 square feet of space, and cannot be sublet until the owner has lived in it for at least two years.
''I've talked to people on the phone who are convinced they want to buy this apartment, but then they see the size and I don't get an offer,'' Mr. Varchola said. The rental market for studios is stronger; he said that the apartment could easily rent for about $2,000 a month. ''If this was a condo or the building had a more lenient sublet policy,'' he said, ''it would have been sold a hundred times already.''
At a similar building on West 64th Street that is made up primarily of studios and one-bedrooms, Ms. Sloane advised several studio owners within the last year to rent rather than try to sell. ''I told them: 'You're not going to get the highest prices for this building right now,' '' she said, adding that there are dozens of studios for sale in the neighborhood.
A few of them are represented by Fern Hamberger, an agent at Citi Habitats. She recently had three studios available for $245,000 at 244 Riverside Drive; two are now in contract. ''That's an unheard-of asking price for this neighborhood, right on top of Riverside Park and right near the 96th Street subway,'' she said. All three apartments, which are owned by an investor and need renovating, came on the market in early 2010 at $315,000. ''Last year wasn't so hot,'' Ms. Hamberger said. ''But we lowered the price and now we are at the right price.''
Michael Murphy, a vice president of Prudential Douglas Elliman, said the owner of a studio in Chelsea, at 101 West 23rd Street, tried selling it two years ago, then rented it out for a while, and has decided to list it again, even though he will probably take a loss. ''It would be easier to rent than sell,'' Mr. Murphy said, ''but the owner is just ready to move on.''
The apartment, in a doorman building, came back on the market last summer at $255,000 and was recently reduced to $199,000. With approximately 550 square feet of space, it is one of the roomiest studios available in this range, but it has a hefty maintenance fee of $1,257 a month.
Mr. Murphy said most of the people who had checked out the place were young first-time buyers looking to move out of a rental and to start building equity in a home. The buyer pool is much the same for the $279,000 studio at 304 East 73rd Street represented by Jennifer Ferland, an agent at A. C. Lawrence. That apartment, in a prewar elevator building, has about 480 square feet and a wall of windows that overlook 73rd Street. Its largest drawback may be that it is steps from Second Avenue, which has been overrun by subway construction.
''A lot of the people who have come to look are first-time buyers,'' Ms. Ferland said. ''And they're looking because they feel they should be looking and they think it's time to buy.''
Sydney Frazier, a 33-year-old interior designer, fits that description. He started his search in the middle of 2010 and saw dozens of studios south of 34th Street for under $350,000. ''It was a little depressing, because for that price I could have a very large house anywhere else,'' said Mr. Frazier, who is from Alabama. ''And here I was looking at one room, sometimes with no separate kitchen or any kind of closet.''
But with prices and mortgage rates down, Mr. Frazier felt it was time to move out of his one-bedroom rental in Astoria and to buy in Manhattan, even if it meant less space. He wound up buying a ''teeny tiny'' studio in the heart of Greenwich Village for less than $300,000. He has been living there since late December and plans eventually to redo the kitchen and bathroom. ''It suits the lifestyle I have right now,'' he said. ''I'm never home; I just need a nice place to lay my head.''
Lisa Holland-Davis, a vice president of Halstead, has several studio listings on the Upper East Side. She said they had attracted both first-time buyers and people looking for a pied-a-terre. ''They want someplace in the city to hang their hat, but not have heavy overhead,'' she said.
One of her listings is a studio at 345 East 77th Street, a prewar elevator building with a live-in superintendent, asking price $235,000. The monthly maintenance is $503. The apartment has a Pullman kitchen and looks out on a dark interior courtyard. An apartment with a view, Ms. Holland-Davis said, would naturally cost more. ''Most apartments in this price range are in walk-up buildings that don't have a laundry or a resident super,'' she said. ''What $235,000 buys you is a piece of Manhattan.''
On the Upper West Side, a few studios are available for around $300,000 in prewar doorman buildings right on Central Park West.
Margaret Bay, a vice president of Brown Harris Stevens, has a studio at 257 Central Park West listed at $275,000. ''It hasn't been touched since the mid-1970s,'' Ms. Bay said, explaining why her listing does not show any photos of the interior. ''But there's been enormous activity on it because the location is great.''
A few blocks away, at 225 Central Park West, is a studio with a ''sidelong view of Central Park'' that was listed at $319,000 last December with a maintenance of $840. It is now in contract. Brian Lewis, an executive vice president of Halstead, was the listing agent.
''We had to be really attractive with the price,'' he said, because the building, known as the Alden, requires a 35 percent down payment and does not allow pieds-a-terre, investors, guarantors, or parents buying for children. ''Those kinds of restrictions protect the building's share value,'' he said, ''but they can be very limiting for small apartments.''
The limits did not keep Timothy Dawson from his recent purchase of a $280,000 studio in the building. Mr. Dawson, an equity trader, lives in a one-bedroom on the Upper West Side but was looking to downsize after a divorce. His new place faces west and has wide-open city views, but it was the location that won him over. He and his Labrador retrievers, Butter and Sable, take daily walks in Central Park.
Noting that the comedian Jerry Seinfeld owns a place next door at the Beresford, Mr. Dawson said, ''You can buy a home with great light and views for under $300,000, be one block north of Seinfeld, and feel pretty good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COZY QUARTERS: Top left, a studio for sale at 101 West 23rd Street. The unit, in a doorman building, has about 550 square feet of space. It has a separate kitchen, and a partial wall divides the living room from the sleeping area.Right, a 330-square-foot studio at 92 Horatio Street, an elevator building. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(RE1)
FRIENDS, TOO: Tim Dawson recently paid $280,000 for a studio on Central Park West. Top left, a studio on the market at 345 East 77th Street. Also for sale is a 480-square-foot studio at 304 East 73rd Street, top right. Both buildings have elevators
both are between First and Second Avenues. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MARKET SHARE (85%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



633 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS

 BODY:
The Many Sides of Risk
To the Editor:
Re ''A Crisis That Markets Can't Grasp'' (March 20), which described investors' inability to put a price on the crisis in Japan: 
Sometimes, questions are more important than answers. Here are some that apply in this situation:
What is it all about, this idea of maximizing economic growth and shareholder wealth? How does our health and safety figure into it? Are some risks too big to take -- no matter how small the probability of a disaster? And is energy -- whether oil, natural gas, nuclear, solar or wind -- fairly priced?
If one were to add in the cost of compromising health and safety, some energy prices would now be much higher. Society may be on a seriously flawed path if it uses traditional finance tools and current market prices without taking into account what economists call ''externalities.''
Carolin Schellhorn, Ph.D.
Ardmore, Pa., March 20
The writer is an assistant professor of finance at St. Joseph's University in Philadelphia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); WRITERS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: ST JOSEPH'S UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (75%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2011



634 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Douglas C. Yearley Jr.

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Yearley, 51, is the new chief executive of Toll Brothers Inc., one of the country's largest builders of luxury homes, with developments in 19 states.
Mr. Yearley, formerly the executive vice president, helped spearhead Toll's expansion into urban markets, including New York City. He took over the daily duties of running the company from Robert I. Toll, a founder, in June.
Q How is the first year as C.E.O.? 
A I've been with the company for 20 years, and I've been reporting directly to Bob for 20 years, so the transition was pretty easy.
Q What's Bob's role now?
A Bob's executive chairman.
I'm running the company day to day. But when it comes to major personnel issues or a major strategic decision, including the review of land opportunities, Bob gets involved.
Q Have you instituted any changes?
A In terms of strategy, very little has changed. We're still a luxury builder; we're still looking to take advantage of the more than $1 billion in cash that we have and buy land now to set up the future.
Q Have you been buying much land with these reserves?
A In 2010 we spent $430 million on new land all over the country.
We purchased four properties out of the WCI bankruptcy, one of which is Rivington in Danbury, Conn. We bought about 1,000 remaining home sites that are left in Rivington that WCI had started before they went bankrupt. Within a month or two we will start construction on our models.
Q How many projects is Toll Brothers working on?
A The company has 200 communities open for sale right now. We own land for another couple hundred that we're either waiting for a better market or we're processing approvals or permits. In addition, there are, at any given time, probably 50 to 100 deals that are out there percolating.
Q Let's talk about projects in the New York area, starting with the Dumbo, Brooklyn, condominium.
A We started construction in October. We'll be starting sales in September, then occupancy the summer of 2012. It will probably average about $800 a square foot, so studios could be $500,000 and penthouses up to $2 million.
Q How about the Touraine?
A At 65th and Lexington, it's our first building on the Upper East Side. It's a boutique building with 23 units -- actually 22, since we just combined a couple of units on the top floors. Construction began in the fall. We're probably going to open for sale in the fall of 2011, and the building will deliver late summer or fall of 2012. The price point there is $2,000 a foot.
Q Have you sold most of the units at 303 East 33rd?
A We began sales when Lehman Brothers tanked in 2008, so prices came down. But in the last year they've gone back up. We're about 90 percent sold.
Q How is the New York market faring?
AToll Brothers City Living -- which for us is Hoboken, Jersey City, Manhattan and Brooklyn -- is our best market in the country.
Prices from a year ago are up 5 to 10 percent, though they're still not back to what they were in '06.
The average price now is $1 million; nationwide it's $560,000.
Q How are sales companywide?
A The spring selling season historically begins right after the Super Bowl and runs into the middle of April, so now we're over a month into the season.
It's been pretty good so far. Deposits are up 9 percent from last year. Deposits can take two to five weeks to convert into an agreement.
Q Has the cancellation rate improved?
A It's back down to historical norms, which is about 7 percent, compared with 30 percent during the recession.
Q But it's still a buyer's market.
A It's still a buyer's market, but it's strengthening a bit. We're having pricing power in isolated locations like New York City and Hoboken. Prices aren't falling in other places; they're just flat.
Q How will changes in the mortgage industry affect business?
A If this transitions away from government sponsorship of most mortgages, there's no question rates will go up, underwriting will become stricter and down payment requirements will get larger. In the long term, that has an effect on affordability.
We're doing a little better because our buyers, on average, put 30 percent down and are very well qualified for mortgages.
Q What are your long-term goals for Toll Brothers?
A To enhance the brand, and get bigger. There's a chance we could announce a deal in China this year.
We're looking to take the City Living brand to Washington and Boston. And in New York, 5 to 10 years from now, we better have half a dozen buildings going up in Manhattan and Brooklyn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%)

COMPANY: TOLL BROTHERS INC (92%)

TICKER: TOL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (92%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (92%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (92%); SIC6163 LOAN BROKERS (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%)

PERSON: ROBERT I TOLL (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



635 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
JAY LENO
The price of gold is at an all-time high. Not as high as iodide pills, but high. 
Speaker John Boehner complained that Obama ordered the U.S. military into combat in Libya without clearly defining the mission to the American people and Congress. See, apparently, you're only allowed to do that when invading Iraq.
Well, the president's really got his hands full on high unemployment at home here. We've got gas prices skyrocketing. But there is one good thing for the president. His N.C.A.A. bracket is looking great.
DAVID LETTERMAN
There's wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and now Libya. You've heard the expression ''theater of war''? This is a multiplex.
JIMMY FALLON
Everyone's been following March Madness, but it's been a few days without any games. It's been so boring, President Obama said he actually wants to focus on situations in Libya and Japan.
JON STEWART
I don't want to be a pain, but don't we already have two wars? You know, wars aren't kids, where you don't have to pay attention to the youngest one because the older two will take care of it.
And by the way, Odyssey Dawn? You're really going to name a combat operation after a Yes album?
CONAN O'BRIEN
They announced the initial name of the U.S. military action in Libya. And it's called Odyssey Dawn. It is the first military action ever to be named by Crabtree & Evelyn.

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Tony Auth: The Philadelphia Inquirer, Universal Uclick
Ben Sargent: Austin American-Statesman, Universal Uclick
Jim Morin: The Miami Herald, CartoonArts International
 Rob Rogers: Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, United Feature Syndicate 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); GOLD MARKETS (58%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (74%); JOHN BOEHNER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); DAVID LETTERMAN (59%); CONAN O'BRIEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); IRAQ (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



636 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1756 words

HEADLINE: Every Revolution Is Revolutionary in Its Own Way

BYLINE: By SIMON SEBAG MONTEFIORE. 
Simon Sebag Montefiore is the author of the forthcoming ''Jerusalem: The Biography.''

 BODY:
London
A REVOLUTION resembles the death of a fading star, an exhilarating Technicolor explosion that gives way not to an ordered new galaxy but to a nebula, a formless cloud of shifting energy. And though every revolution is different, because all revolutions are local, in this uncertain age of Arab uprisings and Western interventions, as American missiles bombard a defiant Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi in Libya, as the ruler of Yemen totters on the brink and Syrian troops fire on protesters, the history of revolution can still offer us some clues to the future.
The German sociologist Max Weber cited three reasons for citizens to obey their rulers: ''the authority of the eternal yesterday,'' or historical prestige; ''the authority of the extraordinary personal gift of grace,'' or the ruler's charisma; and ''domination by virtue of legality,'' or order and justice. The ''authority of the eternal yesterday'' is especially important because in the Arab world even republics tend to be dynastic. 
Before his ouster, Hosni Mubarak of Egypt was grooming hereditary heirs. Before his death in 2000, Hafez al-Assad, the long-reigning Syrian dictator, handed over power to his son Bashar. Colonel Qaddafi has long ruled through a phalanx of thuggish dauphins, each playing a different role -- one the totalitarian enforcer, another, the pro-Western liberalizer -- and each vying for the succession. Yemen's Ali Abdullah Saleh similarly is safeguarded by special forces commanded by sons and nephews.
Yet ''the life span of a dynasty corresponds to the life span of an individual,'' wrote Ibn Khaldun, the brilliant 14th-century Islamic historian-statesman. All these Arab ''monarchies'' have rested on the prestige of a religion (Saudi Wahhabism or Iranian Twelver Shiism), a personality (in Iran, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the founder of the revolution; in Hosni Mubarak's Egypt, the memory of the most popular Arab ruler since Saladin, President Gamal Abdel Nasser; in Saudi Arabia, the founder-king Ibn Saud) or a heredity link (Jordan's King Abdullah II's descent from Muhammad). But ''prestige ... decays inevitably,'' ruled Ibn Khaldun.
Revolutions are set off by dramatic events, yes -- a stolen election in Iran in 2009, a self-immolation in Tunisia. But they also reflect longstanding economic depression, not to mention rising expectations and the temptations of comparison: the Internet meant Arab youth could now compare their own stunted rights with those of their Western counterparts. The generational difference between their wizened pharaohs and the Twitter-obsessed youth worsened the crisis, which may yet mark the end of the ancient paradigm of the Arab ruler, the wise strong sheik, el Rais, the Boss. A dictator who is regularly mocked by the young for his Goth-black dyed hair and surgically enhanced cheekbones, and whose entourage features as many nurses as generals, is in trouble -- he has lost ''the personal gift of grace.''
Such dictators are often so sclerotic that they do not even realize there is a revolution until it is upon them. In 1848, Prince Metternich, the Austrian chancellor, was so old that he literally could not hear the mobs outside his own palace. When the riots started, I imagine Colonel Qaddafi or King Hamad al-Khalifa of Bahrain had a conversation something like this one:
''So what is it? A riot?'' asked King Louis XVI in Paris in 1789.
''No, Sire,'' replied his confidant La Rochefoucauld-Liancourt, ''it is a revolution.''
Leaderless revolutions without organization have a magically spontaneous momentum that is harder to crush. Lenin had just reflected that the revolution would never happen in his lifetime when in February 1917, hungry crowds in Petrograd overthrew Nicholas II while the revolutionaries were abroad, exiled or infiltrated by the secret police.
This time, headless spontaneity has been aided by Facebook, which certainly accelerates the mobilization of crowds -- and the transmission of Western culture, whether it concerns Charlie Sheen's soliloquies or the joys of American democracy. But technology's effect is exaggerated: in 1848, the revolution that most resembles today's, uprisings spread from Sicily to Paris, Berlin, Vienna and Budapest in mere weeks without telephones, let alone Twitter. They spread through the exuberance of momentum and the rigid isolation of repressive rulers.
Once the crowds are in the streets, the ability to crush revolutions depends on the ruler's willingness and ability to shed blood. The more moderate the regimes, like the Shah's Iran in 1979 or Hosni Mubarak's Egypt, the easier to overthrow. The more brutal the police state, like Colonel Qaddafi's Libya, President Saleh's Yemen or President Assad's Syria, the tougher to bring down. Iran has brutally repressed its opposition -- it helps to not be an American ally and to exclude the international news media, as it's much easier to massacre your people without being restrained by the State Department or CNN.
''Very pleasing commencements,'' wrote Edmund Burke, observer of the French Revolution's spiral from freedom to terror, ''have often shameful, lamentable conclusions.'' Look at Lebanon's Cedar Revolution against Syria and its ally Hezbollah, which has ended with a Syrian-backed, Hezbollah-dominated government. The first success of revolution creates the exuberant dizziness of democratic freedom that we saw in Cairo and Benghazi. In Europe in 1848, in Russia in 1917, there were similarly exhilarating springs.
Often temporary leaders arise -- think of Aleksandr Kerensky, the strutting Russian prime minister for some months before the Bolsheviks seized power -- but every revolution has its figures who provide fig leafs for the hard men. Khomeini appointed Mehdi Bazargan, a democrat, as his prime minister, who ended up resigning during the hostage crisis.
The fiesta does not last long. The disorder, uncertainty and strife of a revolution make citizens yearn for stable authority, or they turn to radicalism. Certainly, extremists welcome this deterioration, as Lenin, that laconic dean of the university of revolutionology, expressed it with the slogan: ''The worse, the better.'' (At that point, extreme solutions become more palatable: ''How can one make a revolution without firing squads?'' asked Lenin.)
At this stage, leadership becomes vital: Lenin personally drove the Bolshevik coup in October 1917. Khomeini was decisive in creating a Shiite theocracy in Iran in 1979 just as Nelson Mandela ensured a peaceful transition in South Africa. But there are no clear opposition leaders in Libya, Yemen or Syria: a ruthless security apparatus has long since decimated any such candidates.
In 1848, the democratic spring did not last long before outside intervention: Czar Nicholas I of Russia crushed the revolutions in the Habsburg Empire, earning him the soubriquet ''the gendarme of Europe.'' The Saudi intervention against Shiite rebels in Bahrain suggests the Saudis are the gendarmes of the Gulf; in Yemen, President Saleh has also begged for Saudi help, which they have so far withheld. In Libya, of course, the reverse has happened: the West is backing the rebels against Colonel Qaddafi's onslaught. Each case is different; all revolutions are local.
Whatever happens next in the Arab world, it will not simply be a reversion to Mubarak-ish military pharaohism. After the upheavals of 1848, strange political hybrids, modern yet authoritarian, emerged from the uncertainty: first Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte, the so-called prince-president and later emperor, in France; and, later, in the 1860s, Otto von Bismarck in Prussia. In complex Egypt, the result of the Arab revolutions is likely to be a similar hybrid, a new democracy, with the military in a special role of Turkish-style guardianship; in repressed Libya, it may simply be a return to tribal rivalry.
Libya, strafed by British and American planes, may be in the headlines but it is a minor country: it is the destinies of the key three -- Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Iran -- that will decide everything. After all, Prince Metternich, the conservative Austrian who dominated Europe between the Congress of Vienna in 1815 and the revolutions of 1848, said, ''When Paris sneezes, Europe catches cold.''
Lesser countries, however, can hold the key to major ones: Syria is the old Arab heartland. The uprising in Syria could encourage resurgent revolution in its patron, Iran, which faces the challenge of exploiting the uprisings that undermine American allies without succumbing to its own unrest. Change in Syria could also liberate Lebanon from Hezbollah; the fall of the Bahraini king could infect the Saudi monarchy -- just as Nasser's overthrow of King Farouk in 1952 in Egypt led to the liquidation of the Iraqi monarchy a few years later. And we should always remember that however liberal these Facebooking revolutions may be, the rivalries between Shiite and Sunni are far more potent than Twitter and democracy.
What's next? When Zhou Enlai, the Chinese Communist prime minister, analyzed the French Revolution two centuries later, he declared that ''it's too early to tell.'' We should remember that while enthusiasts have repeatedly cited the revolutions of 1989 to 1991 as the encouraging precedent for today's revolutions, how successful were those? Democracy flowered in Eastern Europe as well as Georgia and the Baltic countries, but most former Soviet republics are dictatorships like Uzbekistan or Belarus, or authoritarian like Putinist Russia.
No single American doctrine can or should fit this newly kaleidoscopic, multifaceted universe that is the Middle East from Iran to Morocco. We must realize this will be a long game, the grand tournament of the 21st century. We should protect innocent lives when we can -- with limited airpower, not boots on the ground. We must analyze which countries matter to us strategically, and after the Facebook party dies down and the students exit the streets, figure out who is really controlling events in the places important to us.
The wisest judgments belong to statesmen who knew much about crushing and making revolutions. ''Old Europe is at the beginning of the end,'' reflected the ultraconservative Metternich as he was beset by revolutions, ''but New Europe however has not yet even begun its existence, and between the End and the Beginning, there will be Chaos.'' Lenin understood that the ultimate question in each revolution is always the unfathomable alchemy of power: who controls whom. Or as he put it so succinctly: ''Who whom?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (87%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); HISTORY (70%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); RELIGION (63%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (50%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (93%); SYRIA (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (91%); TUNISIA (79%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



637 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: Iowa May Turn G.O.P.'s Focus To Social Issues

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
DES MOINES -- The ailing economy and the Tea Party's demand for smaller government have dominated Republican politics for two years, but a resurgent social conservative movement is shaping the first stage of the presidential nominating contest, complicating the strategy for candidates who prefer to focus on fiscal issues over faith.
Here in Iowa, whose caucuses next winter will open the campaign, social and religious conservatives are pressing the likely candidates on issues like same-sex marriage and abortion rather than on jobs, the budget deficit and other economic concerns that leaders of both parties expect to dominate the general election.
The development provides opportunities for candidates like Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, who have a following among social conservatives. But it could make Iowa even more difficult territory for, among others, Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, who has yet to visit the state this year. 
More broadly, some Republicans say, it could muddle the party's message as it seeks to defeat President Obama.
''We look like Camp Christian out here,'' said Doug Gross, a Republican activist and former nominee for governor. ''If Iowa becomes some extraneous right-wing outpost, you have to question whether it is going to be a good place to vet your presidential candidates.''
While social conservatives have long wielded a greater influence in Iowa than in many early-voting states, a bitter fight here over same-sex marriage and rivalries among some of the state's conservative leaders have amplified the issues and might help define the message of Republican candidates in ways that could resonate nationally.
No events have focused solely on the economy, job creation or even the health care law that is widely reviled among Republicans. Instead, the most prominent platforms for candidates to introduce themselves have been a number of forums -- three last week alone -- before socially conservative audiences in Iowa.
Several Republican prospects appeared here Saturday at the Conservative Principles Conference sponsored by Representative Steve King of Iowa, one of the party's firebrands in Congress, who argues that ''culture, not the economy, is the most important thing'' in choosing a nominee. He said he planned to endorse a candidate ''who can be an effective constitutional president.''
All prospective contenders are trying to glean lessons from the 2008 Iowa caucuses, when former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas scored an unexpected victory, in part by winning over evangelical Christians. Four years ago, he was the only candidate to address a forum of Iowa pastors called Rediscovering God in America. But Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi and former Speaker Newt Gingrich were among those attending this year's event.
A balancing act has been on display all weekend.
In an appearance before pastors on Friday, which was closed to reporters, Mr. Barbour criticized the president for supporting abortion rights and pledged to do ''everything that we can to stop abortion.'' He did not raise the subject when he addressed Mr. King's conference on Saturday, and urged Republicans to focus on the Obama administration's policies.
''It is absolutely critical that we elect a new president,'' Mr. Barbour said. ''I think the best way -- perhaps the only way -- is for us to make sure the 2012 campaign is focused on policy.'' He added, ''The American people agree with us on policy.''
A few minutes later, Mr. Gingrich signaled a different approach. He ranked values above the economy and national security in a three-point priority list for voters.
''Some people may say we should stay away from values, stay away from social issues.'' Mr. Gingrich said. ''I'm here to tell you that if you don't start with values, if you don't start by saying who we are as Americans, the rest of it doesn't matter.''
Ms. Bachmann, also pledged to keep social issues at the forefront. To booming applause, she declared: ''We've been told that we need a truce on social issues. I highly disagree with that. Social conservatism is fiscal conservatism.''
Mr. Romney was invited to the forum but has not attended any events with other candidates this year. Former Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota did not attend because of a family commitment.
For Republican candidates, social conservatives have the only established political structure in Iowa, with churches, home-schooling groups and a variety of competing organizations providing ready-made lists of voters. There is no comparable network for fiscal-minded or moderate Republicans.
Yet many contenders could split the social conservative vote, opening a path to victory for more business-minded conservatives like Mr. Barbour, Mr. Pawlenty or even Mr. Romney, who has played down his plans to compete in Iowa even though he has supporters quietly working on his behalf at the Capitol and is the only candidate with a network in all 99 counties.
''Social conservatives could fragment, creating an opportunity for a fiscal conservative to sweep the field with people who aren't as concerned with social issues,'' said J. Ann Selzer, whose firm here conducts the Iowa Poll and other state and national public opinion surveys. ''All candidates are going to have their fiscal credentials vetted.''
Gov. Terry E. Branstad, a Republican who also led the state from 1983 to 1999, returned to politics last year and faced a strong primary challenge from a social conservative, Bob Vander Plaats. Mr. Branstad prevailed on an economic message in a contest that attracted 227,347 Republican voters, the state's biggest primary turnout since 1994.
But the presidential caucuses, a series of party gatherings across the state, require more effort than a regular election and are traditionally dominated by party activists. The outcome of Mr. Branstad's race last year suggests that the electorate includes sizable numbers of moderate Republicans, but campaigns must work to expand the universe of caucus-goers, as Mr. Obama did when he won here in 2008, setting him on his course to the White House.
''Obviously, the economic issues are critically important, considering where this country is right now,'' Mr. Branstad said. ''You'll find people who are very concerned about social issues, but they are also deeply worried about the economy.''
Representative Ron Paul of Texas, who sought the Republican presidential nomination in 2008 and is considering doing so again, is popular among many social conservatives. But his central focus is government spending, the national debt and foreign policy, all of which he said had rarely come up in conversations with Iowa voters.
''I haven't been asked too much about fiscal issues,'' Mr. Paul said in a brief interview after speaking to parents who home-school their children. He added, ''Focusing on only social issues will make a weaker candidate, not a stronger candidate.''
The campaign in Iowa is off to a slower start than four years ago. The Iowa Straw Poll, the political carnival in Ames that provides an early test of support, is only five months away, leaving little time for campaigns to build their organizations. That makes the existing network of social conservative groups even more important.
The political atmosphere in the state has changed considerably since the last time the spotlight of a presidential campaign shined on Iowa. Mr. Obama not only won the Democratic caucuses, he also carried the state by 10 percentage points in the general election.
But last fall, few states saw a more significant shift than Iowa, with Republicans winning the governor's office, taking control of the Iowa House and nearly capturing the Senate. An infusion of newly elected Republicans, many of whom campaigned on Tea Party principles and strong social conservative messages, have changed the climate.
State Senator Kent Sorenson of Indianola, Iowa, a leader among the newly elected conservative officials, sponsored legislation seeking to require presidential candidates to produce a birth certificate. He said Iowa Republicans looked for a candidate with solid conservative credentials and were not interested in a truce on social issues, as Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana, another possible Republican presidential candidate, has suggested.
Mr. Sorenson signed on to the likely presidential exploratory bid of Ms. Bachmann, who he believes will benefit from awakened social conservatives. As she met with voters in a four-day visit to Iowa, she urged them to look closely at what kind of Republicans they were.
''It can't just be a Republican. Do you hear me? It can't just be a Republican,'' Ms. Bachmann said, urging Iowa conservatives to set the tone for the nation. ''We need to have people who have guts, who you won't see melt like wax when they get there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michele Bachmann (A1)
People attending the Conservative Principles Conference on Saturday in Des Moines heard from likely 2012 presidential candidates, including former Speaker Newt Gingrich, above left, and Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi, above right.
 Representative Michele Bachmann fired up the crowd when she declared, ''Social conservatism is fiscal conservatism.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); RELIGION (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (71%); MARRIAGE (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); HEALTH CARE LAW (50%)

PERSON: MICHELE BACHMANN (88%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); HALEY BARBOUR (78%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); STEVE KING (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (93%) IOWA, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



638 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Syria's Chaos A Test for U.S.

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Even as the Obama administration defends the NATO-led air war in Libya, the latest violent clashes in Syria and Jordan are raising new alarm among senior officials who view those countries, in the heartland of the Arab world, as far more vital to American interests.
Deepening chaos in Syria, in particular, could dash any remaining hopes for a Middle East peace agreement, several analysts said. It could also alter the American rivalry with Iran for influence in the region and pose challenges to the United States' greatest ally in the region, Israel.
In interviews, administration officials said the uprising appeared to be widespread, involving different religious groups in southern and coastal regions of Syria, including Sunni Muslims usually loyal to President Bashar al-Assad. The new American ambassador in Damascus, Robert Ford, has been quietly reaching out to Mr. Assad to urge him to stop firing on his people. 
As American officials confront the upheaval in Syria, a country with which the United States has icy relations, they say they are pulled between fears that its problems could destabilize neighbors like Lebanon and Israel, and the hope that it could weaken one of Iran's key allies.
The Syrian unrest continued on Saturday, with government troops reported to have killed more protesters.
With 61 people confirmed killed by security forces, the country's status as an island of stability amid the Middle East storm seemed irretrievably lost.
For two years, the United States has tried to coax Damascus into negotiating a peace deal with Israel and to moving away from Iran -- a fruitless effort that has left President Obama open to criticism on Capitol Hill that he is bolstering one of the most repressive regimes in the Arab world.
Officials fear the unrest there and in Jordan could leave Israel further isolated. The Israeli government was already rattled by the overthrow of Egypt's leader, Hosni Mubarak, worrying that a new government might not be as committed to Egypt's 1979 peace treaty with Israel.
While Israel has largely managed to avoid being drawn into the region's turmoil, last week's bombing of a bus in Jerusalem, which killed one person and wounded 30, and a rain of rocket attacks from Gaza, have fanned fears that the militant group Hamas is trying to exploit the uncertainty.
The unrest in Jordan, which has its own peace treaty with Israel, is also extremely worrying, a senior administration official said. The United States does not believe Jordan is close to a tipping point, this official said. But the clashes, which left one person dead and more than a hundred wounded, pose the gravest challenge yet to King Abdullah II, a close American ally.
Syria, however, is the more urgent crisis -- one that could pose a thorny dilemma for the administration if Mr. Assad carries out a crackdown like that of his father and predecessor, Hafez al-Assad, who ordered a bombardment in 1982 that killed at least 10,000 people in the northern city of Hama. Having intervened in Libya to prevent a wholesale slaughter in Benghazi, some analysts asked, how could the administration not do the same in Syria?
Though no one is yet talking about a no-fly zone over Syria, Obama administration officials acknowledge the parallels to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. Some analysts predicted the administration will be cautious in pressing Mr. Assad, not because of any allegiance to him but out of a fear of what could follow him -- a Sunni-led government potentially more radical and Islamist than his Alawite minority government.
Still, after the violence, administration officials said Mr. Assad's future was unclear. ''Whatever credibility the government had, they shot it today -- literally,'' a senior official said about Syria, speaking on the condition that he not be named.
In the process, he said, Mr. Assad had also probably disqualified himself as a peace partner for Israel. Such a prospect had seemed a long shot in any event -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has shown no inclination to talk to Mr. Assad -- but the administration kept working at it, sending its special envoy, George J. Mitchell, on several visits to Damascus.
Mr. Assad has said that he wants to negotiate a peace agreement with Israel. But with his population up in arms, analysts said, he might actually have an incentive to pick a fight with its neighbor, if only to deflect attention from the festering problems at home.
''You can't have a comprehensive peace without Syria,'' the administration official said. ''It's definitely in our interest to pursue an agreement, but you can't do it with a government that has no credibility with its population.''
Indeed, the crackdown calls into question the entire American engagement with Syria. Last June, the State Department organized a delegation from Microsoft, Dell and Cisco Systems to visit Mr. Assad with the message that he could attract more investment if he stopped censoring Facebook and Twitter. While the administration renewed economic sanctions against Syria, it approved export licenses for some civilian aircraft parts.
The Bush administration, by contrast, largely shunned Damascus, recalling its ambassador in February 2005 after the assassination of a former Lebanese prime minister, Rafik Hariri. Many Lebanese accuse Syria of involvement in the assassination, a charge it denies.
When Mr. Obama named Mr. Ford as his envoy last year, Republicans in the Senate held up the appointment for months, arguing that the United States should not reward Syria with closer ties. The administration said it would have more influence by restoring an ambassador.
But officials also concede that Mr. Assad has been an endless source of frustration -- deepening ties with Iran and the Islamic militant group Hezbollah; undermining the government of Saad Hariri in Lebanon; pursuing a nuclear program; and failing to deliver on promises of reform.
Some analysts said that the United States was so eager to use Syria to break the deadlock on Middle East peace negotiations that it had failed to push Mr. Assad harder on political reforms.
''He's given us nothing, even though we've engaged him on the peace process,'' said Andrew J. Tabler, who lived in Syria for a decade and is now at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. ''I'm not saying we should give up on peace talks with Israel, but we cannot base our strategy on that.''
The United States does not have the leverage with Syria it had with Egypt. But Mr. Tabler said the administration could stiffen sanctions to press Mr. Assad to make reforms.
Other analysts, however, point to a positive effect of the unrest: it could deprive Iran of a reliable ally in extending its influence over Lebanon, Hezbollah and the Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza.
That is not a small thing, they said, given that Iran is likely to benefit from the fall of Mr. Mubarak in Egypt, the upheaval in Bahrain, and the resulting chill between the United States and Saudi Arabia.
''There's much more upside than downside for the U.S.,'' said Martin S. Indyk, the vice president for foreign policy at the Brookings Institution. ''We have an interest in counterbalancing the advantages Iran has gained in the rest of the region. That makes it an unusual confluence of our values and interests.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); HAMAS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); RELIGION (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); HOSNI MUBARAK (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (96%); SYRIA (95%); JORDAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



639 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 4598 words

HEADLINE: The Good Girl

BYLINE: By PEGGY ORENSTEIN

 BODY:
On Veterans Day at Mary Fay Pendleton elementary school on the Camp Pendleton Marine Base, American flags lined the sidewalks. Bunting festooned the windows along with children's crayoned drawings of tanks, fighter planes and soldiers shooting bullets or throwing grenades. Although the school was closed for the holiday, hundreds of kids and parents had gathered on a playing field to break ground for a new ''teaching garden.'' The program was sponsored by the American Heart Association and Kelly Meyer, the wife of the Universal Studios president, Ron Meyer. Which explained the improbable presence of Miranda Cosgrove, the 17-year-old star of the hit Nickelodeon show ''iCarly.'' A photographer stopped her as she walked toward a makeshift stage and asked her to plant a cabbage seedling, but a strand of her long, dark hair fell across her face, ruining his shot. Cosgrove's smile never dimmed as she scooped up the plant and tried again. This time her hair stayed put. ''Perfect,'' said the photographer. And it was. 
If you don't recognize Cosgrove's name, you must not be between ages 2 and 14, the parent of such a child or, possibly, British (nearly 8 percent of England's population tunes into ''iCarly''). You're also not of much interest to Nickelodeon, which aims for the eyeballs, as well as the prodigious pocket change, of today's media-hungry tweens. ''iCarly'' is the network's most popular show among that desirable demographic -- two years ago it surpassed the seemingly untouchable ''Hannah Montana'' in the ratings. Cosgrove, who reportedly earns $180,000 an episode, is the second-highest-paid child actor on TV (bested only by Angus T. Jones, the ''half'' on CBS's blighted ''Two and a Half Men''). Her first album, ''Sparks Fly,'' was released last spring by Columbia Records and made its debut at No. 8 on the Billboard 200. She is also an official ''ambassador'' for Neutrogena; voiced the character of Margot in the animated film ''Despicable Me''; topped a float in the Macy's Thanksgiving parade; and serenaded the president's daughters in a White House Christmas special.
That makes Cosgrove the latest in a series of ''It'' girls -- among them Miley Cyrus, Selena Gomez and Hilary Duff -- who have emerged over the past decade: not just actresses, not just singers, these young women are industries. In addition to TV shows, they have movies, recording careers, clothing and cosmetic lines, and their images appear on everything from coloring books to nail clippers. Their popularity, in part, rises from the new perch they occupy in tween girls' hearts. Rather than wanting to be with their idols (as they would, say, Justin Bieber), young fans want to be them. That's a different relationship entirely.
Still, the secret to their juggernauts may have less to do with kids' fantasies than with the one they evoke in parents: from the smoothness of their skin to the length of their hemlines to the banality of their song lyrics and sitcom plots, these young stars embody an ideal of teenage innocence that adults are grateful to embrace. For as many seasons as the illusion can be maintained, they remain, at least onscreen, uncomplicated, untroubled good girls, on the verge of, but never actually awakening to, their sexuality. There is a lot of money to be made -- and a lot of parental anxiety to be tapped -- by walking that line. There is also a lot of fury unleashed at those who step across it. When young stars pose semi-nude or get caught drinking, they threaten the notion that our own daughters' coming-of-age could be effortless. Suddenly, the ''role models'' who have perpetuated that myth become the vector of our fears. The betrayal feels personal and cuts deep.
Cosgrove seems to wear the pressure lightly. At Mary Fay Pendleton elementary school, she extolled the virtues of broccoli and regular exercise, her affect appealingly, accessibly awkward -- just like a real girl. Her flowered swing top (purchased, she told me, the night before to go with the garden theme), skinny jeans and fake-distressed combat boots were fashionable yet modest; pretty but not sexy. When she leaned forward to sign a few hurried autographs, children hugged her, kissed her.
After a few more quick publicity photos, her escort suggested that Cosgrove wait for her driver inside the principal's office. ''They're about to let the kids go,'' he explained, ''and you'll be mobbed.''
Cosgrove glanced hesitantly at her mother, Chris, who accompanied her to the event. ''It's O.K.,'' Miranda said. ''I don't mind.'' Chris added firmly, ''She's here for the kids.'' Two more officials rushed over to shoo her away, and each time, Cosgrove was reassuring. Finally, the school principal called the escort's cell and said: ''They're coming! Tell her to just get in the car and go!'' So, reluctantly, she did.
As Cosgrove's Town Car pulled away, I noticed a mother hurry forward with her two small daughters, looking expectant. ''She's leaving?'' the woman said, disgusted. ''That's just terrible.''
Disney has churned out more tween-girl idols, but Nickelodeon pioneered the concept back in 1991, with ''Clarissa Explains It All,'' starring Melissa Joan Hart. That show demonstrated that a female lead could play to both sexes. Until then, the conventional Hollywood wisdom held that girls would watch a male protagonist but that the reverse was not the case, so a show with a female star would instantly halve your market share. Additionally, ''Clarissa'' featured an actress who, at 14, was the same tender age as the part she played, intensifying fans' identification with her.
It took Disney until 2001 to broadcast its own perky-girl-centered sitcom: ''Lizzie McGuire,'' starring Hilary Duff, who was then 13. ''Lizzie'' books, ''Lizzie'' albums, a ''Lizzie'' movie and a ''Lizzie'' clothing line soon followed. When Duff quit the brand over a contract dispute, Disney merely replicated the formula with Raven-Symone, filming 65 episodes of ''That's So Raven'' in rapid succession, before its star could age out of her role.
Then came ''Hannah Montana,'' a show about a girl named Miley Stewart (played by Miley Cyrus, who also took on the role at age 13) with a secret: an ordinary teen by day, at night she becomes -- a pop star! Lizzie and Raven were big, but nothing like this: by 2008 ''Hannah'' had 200 million viewers globally, and Cyrus was on her way to becoming a billionaire. The show was an ideal fit for a generation whose increasing access to celebrities -- through Web sites, Facebook, Twitter feed -- changed the nature of their dreams: stardom was no longer confined to the distant climes of Hollywood or New York. It was available to anyone with access to a smartphone and YouTube.
''iCarly,'' which made its debut in 2007, trades on that notion as well. In it, Cosgrove plays Carly Shay, a spunky-yet-relatable teenager who, when she's not attending high school, hosts a wacky-yet-wholesome Web show -- let's make chicken soup in a toilet! -- with her two best friends. On the program's online counterpart, fans can watch webisodes of those shows-/within-a-show. They're also encouraged to post their own videos (a kid squirting milk out of his eyes) for the entertainment of the cast and one another, further blurring the distinction between performer and fan. Such contrived intimacy fuels brand loyalty and also the belief that ''iCarly'' truly is the young viewer's friend. All the more crucial, then, that the actress who plays her behave in an exemplary way. ''The first time someone called me a role model,'' Cosgrove recalled, ''I remember thinking, What does that mean? But I feel aware of it when I'm reading scripts. I want to be able to make things that the people who watch my show can see and that they would enjoy.''
Cosgrove likes to say she's ''doing home-school,'' though that is normalizing what is a very unusual situation. Child actors are required by law to spend 15 hours a week being tutored until they complete high school or (a popular choice) test out at 16. Cosgrove used to do her studying in public libraries, but since the success of ''iCarly,'' that's become impossible. Kids recognize her, word spreads and soon she's beset by crowds begging for autographs. ''We've been told to leave about half the libraries in Los Angeles for being distracting,'' she said.
I joined her and her tutor, Patti Foy, one morning in a conference room on the Nickelodeon lot in Los Angeles. Cosgrove was busily composing an essay on ''Macbeth.'' Chris Cosgrove was there, too, getting ready to run some errands. Foy, who has been tutoring Miranda for nine years, gushed over what a model pupil her charge is: Cosgrove completed precalculus over the summer and was now taking Shakespeare, French III, economics and government. Her progress is evaluated by a college prep ''distance learning'' school called Laurel Springs, from which she has always gotten straight A's. While I didn't doubt her intelligence or diligence, it almost seemed too much: could this girl be more perfect? A more glittering ideal? ''There are lots of easy ways to get by,'' Foy added proudly. ''Miranda has always chosen the hard path.''
Cosgrove's acting career seems to have proceeded along an easier road, or at least a charmed one, beginning with a random Lana Turner moment at age 3: an agent spied Miranda clowning around with her parents at a Los Angeles food festival and handed Chris a card. Perhaps the girl could model. Chris wasn't especially keen to put her only child in front of the camera, but after checking out the agency, her parents thought they would give it a go. ''Our big plan when we decided to do this was to get money for college,'' she said. Within a few weeks, Cosgrove landed a commercial for the soft drink Mello Yello. More ads and a few small TV roles followed; then, at age 9, she was cast as an elementary-school prig turned band manager in the movie ''School of Rock.'' Shortly before that film was released, she landed another role, as Megan, the diabolical younger sister on the Nickelodeon show ''Drake and Josh.'' The reaction of her fourth-grade classmates to that news marked the moment, Cosgrove recalled, ''when I really understood I was acting. Since I did it from the time I was so little, I never thought of it as 'a job.' And I didn't realize that everybody didn't do it.''
Her mother, Chris, and her father, Tom, were wary of the impact that fame could have on their daughter. They've tried, as much as they can with a superstar child, to maintain a normal life -- the one they might have had if all this had not happened. They live in a middle-class suburb of Los Angeles, in the same house they have owned since Miranda was born. Tom Cosgrove still works every day at the dry-cleaning business he owns. ''We don't feel like we're a part of her world,'' Chris explained. ''Like what are we going to do later? And, you know, it's not our money. So we're doing our own thing.''
For as long as they could, they also kept Miranda in public school, but by sixth grade, coordinating multiple teachers and a more complex schedule proved impossible. ''It took a lot for my mom to give in,'' Cosgrove said. ''I remember her asking: 'Are you sure you want to do this? Are you sure you want to stay in acting?' ''
''At first I was kind of happy to be home-schooled,'' she continued, ''because all my friends were afraid of that first day of middle school. But actually it's harder. You're all alone.'' For a short time, her co-stars, Drake Bell and Josh Peck, shared her classroom, but they were several years older than she and quickly obtained their G.E.D.'s. ''I cried when they left,'' Cosgrove admitted. ''It's cool in a way, but I miss being in a regular school.''
Child stars tend to be isolated from other kids. The perpetual scrutiny of adults -- even those they love -- can feel at least as intense as that of fans and the media, and it's that spotlight that seems to make Cosgrove squirm. Whenever one of her ''team'' praised her talent or intellect, which happened regularly, she ducked her head in the typical adolescent combination of mortification and pride. When Foy pulled out a homework essay for me to read, Cosgrove put her book over her face and moaned, ''Oh, my God!''
A child performer must always be accompanied by a parent or guardian while working. A publicist shadowed Cosgrove during our interviews. Her manager is often with her, too, as is Foy. And of course, Chris (who won't appear in photos and refuses to be interviewed) is almost always near her daughter, a protective and often corrective presence. After a concert one night, she noticed that Miranda, engrossed in conversation, unintentionally ignored someone who was leaving her dressing room. It was a small thing, and completely accidental, but Chris called her on it.
''Miranda,'' she said, sharply. ''Someone said goodbye to you!''
Cosgrove stopped short and turned around. ''Oh, I'm so sorry,'' she said, earnestly. ''Goodbye, it was nice to meet you.''
To give Miranda a break, Chris tries to carve out time at the end of each day for her daughter to hang out with old pals from elementary school (Miranda's best friend, whom she has known since second grade, still lives next door). Yet even they are conscious of Cosgrove's image. When a young man she didn't know asked to take a picture with her during a party, her former classmates stopped him and insisted he first put down the bottle he was holding. ''That could go up on the Internet,'' one of them cautioned. ''We don't want anyone thinking Miranda is drinking a beer.'' She couldn't risk being perceived as doing something inappropriate -- something realistic -- like the rest of them.
With her millions of dollars, concert tours and celebrity chums, Cosgrove would seem the enviable one, the girl with all the opportunity. Yet in some ways she is more constrained than the friends she left behind: at least they are free to explore their identities, mess up, hook up, test their limits, taste a beer. At one point, Miranda regaled me with the story of how, on one of her rare dates, she looked into the rearview mirror of the boy's car to find her mother tailing them. I glanced over at Chris, waiting for explanation. ''Well,'' she said, slowly, ''it's not the way it sounds.'' Then, to her daughter's amusement, she retold the story -- exactly the same way, adding only, ''I was going to have to pick her up at the restaurant anyway, so I figured I might as well go then and wait.''
It isn't easy to watch a daughter's incipient forays into romance and sexuality. If Miranda embodies the wish that girls could engage in the former without the latter, Chris was acting out a parent's desire to ensure it. Most of us don't (and can't) chaperone our daughters at school, at concerts, at public appearances. Most of us accept, if with some ambivalence, that our daughters have to navigate the turbulence of romantic life on their own. Most of us have no choice but to let our daughters go.
Neither Disney nor Nickelodeon wants its lucrative teenage properties to become tabloid staples. When Disney retitled the last season of Cyrus's show ''Hannah Montana Forever,'' the studio probably wished it could be true. But little girls grow bigger every day. And often the largest threat to the tween-girl franchises are the stars themselves, whose adolescent growing pains leave them vulnerable to empire-gutting scandal. Gary Marsh, president of entertainment for Disney Channel, sounded like a fretful father when he moaned to a reporter that concern over his stars' behavior ''keeps me up at night.''
Yet what is a good girl to do? By 16, playing the G-rated role no longer feels so sweet. After all, no one wants to be a role model to 9-year-olds forever. As a performer and a person, you have to grow up. And what is the fastest way for a young woman to shed the mantle of wholesomeness? Easy: take it off with the rest of her clothes.
A lingerie-clad Hilary Duff appeared on the cover of Maxim magazine. So did Melissa Joan Hart from ''Clarissa.'' Jamie Lynn Spears, Britney's younger sister and star of Nickelodeon's ''Zoey 101,'' announced at age 16 that she was pregnant out of wedlock. As for Cyrus, she, more than anyone, was sold as the girl whom parents could trust. Much was made of her ''true love waits'' ring that symbolized her vow of premarital chastity. She told Oprah in 2007 that ''I look way young, and that's the way that's more comfortable for me.'' In 2008, Barbara Walters called her ''any parent's antidote to the current crop of teen train wrecks.'' Two months later, Vanity Fair published several photos of Cyrus, including one of the 15-year-old seemingly nude, hair and makeup mussed, a rumpled sheet clutched to her chest. Then came a pole dance at the Teen Choice Awards and a string of outre videos, including one of the under-age star in a club grinding with a man who appeared to be in his mid-40s. Her former agent, Mitchell Gossett, advises his clients to ''keep it clean till 18,'' but she apparently couldn't wait.
Parents who had bought Cyrus's virginal hype (and praised her to their daughters) were livid. How dare she break character that way? She was supposed to be a poster girl for purity! Yet it may be the very expectations foisted on girls like Cyrus -- the fetishizing of their innocence, the dogged refusal to acknowledge their changing selves, the denial of libido that the stars themselves collude in -- that primes them to push hard in the other direction. No wonder that Selena Gomez, star of Disney's popular ''Wizards of Waverly Place,'' recently quietly slipped off her own chastity ring -- which she had called a ''promise to myself, to my family and to God'' -- donned a black miniskirt and stilettos and told a fanzine, ''I don't want to be stuck in a box anymore.''
By last November, when 18-year-old Demi Lovato -- star of Disney Channel's ''Sonny With a Chance'' and one of the girls Disney pushed forward in the wake of Cyrus's mini-scandals -- landed in rehab ''for emotional and physical issues,'' her crash seemed almost part of the script. That same month, in an AOL poll, Cyrus sank from TV's No. 1 role model to the bottom of the heap, below the ''Dancing With the Stars'' contestant and abstinence advocate Bristol Palin.
Cosgrove, by contrast, seems, at least for now, to feel less confined by her image, willing to nudge the boundaries rather than tear them down. Before a guest appearance in an episode of ''The Good Wife,'' in which she played a dissolute tween idol, both Patti Foy and a Nickelodeon executive vetted the script for untoward language or provocative clothing. A scene with suggestive dance moves was excised. ''We want to make sure her golden-girl image is still there,'' Foy told me. When, in ''Dancing Crazy,'' Cosgrove sings about ''going all night'' or ''hot hot,'' she's referring solely to the dance floor. In a publicity still, her hair is blown back by invisible wind, and she's wearing a T-shirt that says ''I Boys.'' For a girl of nearly 18, that is indeed keeping it clean.
The greenroom at the ''Jimmy Kimmel Live!'' show is tricked out like the ultimate man cave. During one evening's preshow festivities, a bartender poured free drinks; a football game blared from a giant flat-screen TV. A group of guys in cowboy hats lounged on deep-cushioned couches, and some dude, maybe a friend of Kimmel's, seemed hypnotized by a game of Pac-man. Cosgrove, who was there to promote her ''Good Wife'' appearance as well as an hourlong ''iCarly'' special, kept her distance from all of it. She stayed in her dressing room, chatting with her manager and publicist, as Chris and a stylist fussed around her, affixing her dress's grosgrain straps to her body with double-sided tape to avoid any possible wardrobe malfunctions. A crew member popped by with his daughter, a blond first grader with a bowl haircut. When she saw Cosgrove, she froze, shoving all the fingers of both hands into her mouth.
''Go ahead,'' the dad coaxed. ''Say hi to Miranda.''
The girl hesitated, then burst out, ''I wish I was watching 'iCarly!' '' shoved her hands back in her mouth and ran out of the room as if she had been set on fire.
Kimmel's first guest that evening was Kathy Griffin. She strutted onstage and, before taking her seat, bragged about the loft of her breasts (though ''breasts'' wasn't the word she used) and the tautness of her behind (again, different word), then twirled around, asking Kimmel over her shoulder, ''Do you ever wish you tapped that?'' She spent the rest of the segment riffing on the tabloid shenanigans of -- tween idols. She mocked Britney and Justin, then did a bit about feeling outclassed at a tony cocktail party until the hostess turned to her and asked, ''Now, Kathy, what is going on with the Lohans?''
''I'm on 24-hour-a-day Lohan watch,'' she joked. ''She's got the government LoJack, and then she has the Kathy Griffin LoJack.''
Watching on a monitor from her dressing room, Cosgrove laughed, but Chris was becoming visibly nervous. (Later she would tell me, ''I thought maybe she'd say Miranda attacked Dakota Fanning or something.'')
I turned to Cosgrove's manager, Mark Beaven, and asked how he thinks Cosgrove can age more gracefully than Griffin's foils. No matter whom I asked that question, the answer was always the same -- she had to evolve rather than leap to adulthood, look for good material, choose her roles carefully. That is, of course, what parents of her fans hope to hear. But while the generalities were true, the specifics were always vague. One thing for sure: no one imagines Cosgrove dancing on a pole. ''Ultimately, it's really up to Miranda,'' Beaven said. ''Miley is facing challenges because she's stepping into other parts of her career. She can do that, but her following may not respond favorably, and that's the reality.''
Among the options Cosgrove discusses: walking away, at least for a while. She talked as often and enthusiastically to me about going to college in a year as she did about finding a great script or cutting a new album. During our time together, she was industriously filling out college applications, answering questions like ''What is your concept of a global networked university'' that would make most teenagers with a seven-figure-salary flee. But college has been the plan from the get-go, the reason she went into acting. ''Yes, it could make her lose momentum,'' Chris said. ''I understand that. But if the talent is there, it will always be there. And in a way, maybe when you come back you won't be stuck in the stigma of being the child star. So it could be an advantage.''
Cosgrove's manager was politic about the possibility that she'll leave while still at her peak (''My mother was a college professor,'' he said), but Kimmel was not. ''Why do you want to go to college?'' he asked with mock-incredulity when Cosgrove came on set. She started to answer, but he cut her off. ''You're already very successful and wealthy, and I see no reason to get an education.'' Cosgrove laughed and answered, ''Well, my dad went to U.S.C.'' When I pressed her on the subject later, she said: ''It's weird for me. My friends are going through this thing of figuring out what they want to do with their lives. And I -- at this point, I think I know what I want. But if I go to college, I can figure it out for sure.'' Maybe for her, it's not about finding a career path, though. Maybe college would give Cosgrove something else: four years to be a kid, or a budding adult, like any other, without everyone watching -- something she's never really gotten to be.
Back on the set, the applause swelled, and the camera pulled back for a commercial. Kimmel leaned in toward Cosgrove and, almost as a throwaway, said, ''I hope you don't wind up in a lot of trouble like all those other stars.''
It's not quite the same as matriculating, but on a winter night in December, Miranda Cosgrove was attending San Jose State University. She was performing as part of a radio-sponsored holiday show called ''Triple Ho.'' As in ho-ho-ho. Only not. The other performers on the bill -- the hip-hop artists Nelly and Jay Sean, the R&B singer Taio Cruz and the Latin crossover sensation Enrique Iglesias -- skew to a decidedly older crowd. At a parking structure near the event, I overheard a conversation between two young women, students at the University of California, Berkeley, who drove down for the show. ''I can't wait to see Enrique,'' said the first one, Anisa Young, who wore cutoffs over tights, ballet flats and a leather jacket. ''And Nelly. Actually, everyone -- except Miranda Cosgrove.''
I broke in and introduced myself, asking her why Cosgrove didn't appeal. ''She's too random in this lineup,'' Young explained. ''We're looking at this cool list, and then we see her, and it's like, What's going on? She's for little kids.''
And that is the bind of the tween-girl idol: If you sell your sexuality, your young fan base (and certainly their parents) will turn on you. Yet if you stay clean, you're dismissed by your peers as too bland. What's more, no one -- neither young women who have gone through it nor girls who will -- has patience for the mistakes and pratfalls of your transition to womanhood.
Young and her friend each made a face when I mentioned Cyrus, though they were devotees as little girls. ''All that stuff she's done . . .'' Young said, trailing off. It's not the sexiness per se -- they were both Katy Perry fans, and she shoots whipped cream from her breasts. It was the suddenness and the extremity of the shift. It felt disingenuous to them, overly calculated. They simply didn't buy it. Nor apparently did many others: Cyrus's last album, ''Can't Be Tamed,'' was, for the first time in her career, a commercial disappointment, and the domestic gross of her 2010 film, ''The Last Song,'' was nearly 20 percent lower than her 2009 release, ''Hannah Montana: The Movie.''
When Cosgrove performed early on in the show, however, she was received warmly enough by the crowd, which seemed happy to bop along to her hit ''Kissin' U.'' It was a likable performance, and Cosgrove seemed content with it. The following week she would go back to the studio to finish up her new single with Max Martin, the producer who, as it happens, worked with Katy Perry on several of her singles.
Perry, whom few parents would consider a role model for their girls, incited controversy last year when she appeared in a low-cut dress singing a duet with Elmo on ''Sesame Street'' (the segment was ultimately shelved). For the moment, anyway, Cosgrove would be welcomed in that neighborhood. By next year, who knows? Maybe she'll be in college. Maybe she'll land a slightly edgy role in an indie film, which is another of her fondest dreams. Maybe she'll be touring stadiums, or maybe her pop career will go flat. When I asked her where she'd like to be in 5 or 10 years, she laughed and said she didn't know. And really, how can 17 imagine 25? I tried again: ''Where do you think you'll be in a year?''
She paused, thoughtfully. ''I really don't know,'' she said. ''I hope at least I have my driver's license.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 27, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Page 32 this weekend about Miranda Cosgrove, the teenage star of the ''iCarly'' television show, and the difficulties that child stars have when they grow up, misspells the surname of a young actress who recently ended up in rehab after suffering emotional stress. She is Demi Lovato, not Lavato.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX PRAGER) (MM33)
Young fans identify with Cosgrove, who performs on TV, in movies, on recordings -- and live in concert. (MM35)
 To her many fans, Cosgrove remains appealingly, accessibly awkward -- just like a real girl. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE SINCLAIR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); THANKSGIVING (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); WOMEN (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); FILM (67%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (64%); ANIMATED FILMS (60%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (60%)

PERSON: RON MEYER (70%); SELENA GOMEZ (54%); HILARY DUFF (54%); MILEY CYRUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



640 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Castro's Shadow

BYLINE: By TOM GJELTEN. 
Tom Gjelten is a correspondent for NPR and the author of ''Bacardi and the Long Fight for Cuba: The Biography of a Cause.''

 BODY:
RED HEAT
Conspiracy, Murder, and the Cold War in the Caribbean
By Alex von Tunzelmann
Illustrated. 449 pp. Henry Holt & Company. $30
For a historian wishing to chronicle American foreign policy foolishness, there is no more promising territory than the Western Hemisphere. One could begin with the 1823 Monroe Doctrine, by which the United States reserved the right to intervene militarily in the region, and then look just about anywhere down through the years for examples of shameful behavior. In ''Red Heat,'' Alex von Tunzelmann concentrates on just one area, the Caribbean, and mainly on one decade, the 1960s. In those years, the United States promoted political assassinations, turned a blind eye to horrific brutality and repression by local tyrants, sponsored an invasion of Cuba and dispatched 23,000 soldiers and Marines to the Dominican Republic in order to prevent the establishment of a government there it feared would be unfriendly. 
And it all came about because Washington, as von Tunzelmann explains, had been ''hoodwinked'' by one crafty strongman. Fidel Castro convinced successive American presidents that he had directed a Communist revolution in Cuba that could lead to Communist takeovers across the region, when all that really happened was that Fulgencio Batista, with little remaining public support, effectively abandoned the island to whoever was in position to take it. ''It was now believed -- absurdly, but sincerely -- that a group of Communists barely numerous enough to make up a football team would be capable of taking over entire nations in the blink of an eye,'' von Tunzelmann writes. ''Communism, it seemed, was uncontrollably powerful.''
With single-minded determination to prevent the infection of Haiti and the Dominican Republic, the United States government calibrated its treatment of Francois (Papa Doc) Duvalier and Rafael Trujillo and his son Ramfis almost exclusively on judgments of whether their dictatorial rule might inhibit the creation of ''another Cuba.'' After Haitian gunmen attacked a limousine carrying Duvalier's children, Papa Doc ordered the execution of 65 army officers for suspected involvement. The Kennedy administration temporarily cut diplomatic ties and briefly debated whether to support efforts to remove Duvalier from power but decided against it. ''We believe that Fidel Castro will be strongly tempted to find some means of stepping into such a situation,'' the State Department warned. Just two weeks after suspending aid to Duvalier's government, the United States restored full diplomatic and economic relations.
In the Dominican Republic, the Trujillo family gained similar immunity. After Rafael Trujillo's 31-year rule ended in 1961 with his assassination, his son and successor, Ramfis, took personal charge of torturing and murdering anyone he held responsible. One general had his eyelids sewn open and was doused in acid before he was finally killed. John F. Kennedy, however, was more concerned with the threat from neighboring Cuba. He saw three possibilities for the future of the Dominican Republic: ''a decent democratic regime, a continuation of the Trujillo regime or a Castro regime. We ought to aim at the first,'' Kennedy said, ''but we really can't renounce the second until we are sure that we can avoid the third.'' The Trujillo regime was safe, and human rights in the Caribbean were set back for years.
This is a deplorable chapter in American history, and von Tunzelmann wants to make certain we know that. ''Red Heat'' is thorough in scope and quite readable. Still, this young British writer (born in 1977) is so scolding in tone that her book is harder to finish than it should be. It is good to be reminded of the awful Trujillo and Duvalier years (especially now that Jean-Claude Duvalier, the son of Papa Doc, has returned to Haiti). There may even be some people who have not yet heard that the C.I.A. tried repeatedly to assassinate Fidel Castro. But von Tunzelmann's account of how American presidents overstated the threat from Cuba is weakened by her own exaggerations and occasionally smug style.
A good example is the story with which she opens her book, the F.B.I.'s reported discovery, in November 1962, of a plot by Cuban agents to bomb the Macy's, Gimbels and Bloomingdale's department stores in New York during the holiday shopping rush. Von Tunzelmann theorizes that the American government may well have been planning to stage the attacks, with the intent of blaming the resulting carnage on the Castro regime, exactly as conspiracy theorists believe the 9/11 attacks were staged by Washington to provide a pretext for war in Afghanistan and Iraq. ''There is no question that they were prepared to kill civilians in the process,'' she writes.
She bases her claim rather loosely on the infamous ''Northwoods'' memorandum written months earlier by Pentagon war planners in response to a request for actions that could be taken to justify a military attack on Cuba. The memo writers suggested a variety of actions up to and including ''attempts on lives of Cuban refugees . . . even to the extent of wounding.'' It was as outrageous a document as the Defense Department has ever produced, but von Tunzelmann should know that when Pentagon planners outline a possible course of action, it does not mean the government is actually prepared to carry it out. Declassified papers show that Kennedy rejected the Pentagon suggestions as soon as they were presented to him, and there is no evidence whatsoever that the government plotted the bombing of New York department stores.
Most of the references cited by von Tunzelmann consist of books by other people, but she apparently has read enough to satisfy her curiosity on questions that have confounded other historians, like when, exactly, Fidel Castro actually became a Communist. She declares flatly that when he announced in 1961 that he had long been a Marxist-Leninist in secret, ''it was not accurate. It was meant to impress the Soviets.'' Maybe, but we do not know that for sure. She is distracting even in her habit of consistently referring to politicians by their diminutives. Not only are the Kennedys ''Jack'' and ''Bobby,'' Richard Nixon is ''Dick,'' Senator J. William Fulbright is ''Bill,'' Robert McNamara is ''Bob'' and McGeorge Bundy is ''Mac.''
Von Tunzelmann's first book, ''Indian Summer,'' on the ending of British rule in India and Pakistan, was widely praised for its dramatic sweep and the quality of the writing, but ''Red Heat,'' though it has similar sweep, falls short because she overreaches in her assessment of her story's importance. Did American policy in the Caribbean in the 1960s really ''change the world,'' as she says? And is it really true that interventions in Vietnam and elsewhere showed that ''no lessons had been learned'' from the Caribbean experience? Von Tunzelmann undermines her own argument by pointing out that a few months before his death, Kennedy told a visiting journalist that he believed ''we created, built and manufactured the Castro movement out of whole cloth and without realizing it. . . . Now we shall have to pay for those sins.'' In fact, lessons learned from the Caribbean experience soon nourished the movement against the war in Vietnam and led to serious limits on covert C.I.A. shenanigans.
But von Tunzelmann may be right in one important respect. The American experience in the Caribbean apparently did not teach us how dangerous it can be to make war on an idea. That was true with regard to Communism in our backyard in the 1960s, and it is true today, as we engage other ideologies on more distant battlefields.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIK T. JOHNSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); MURDER (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); ARMIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); SHOOTINGS (73%); ARMED FORCES (68%)

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (88%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (93%); HAITI (92%)

TITLE: Red Heat: Conspiracy, Murder, and the Cold War in the Caribbean (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



641 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GERALDINE A. FERRARO, 1935-2011; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3546 words

PERSON: Geraldine A. Ferraro 

HEADLINE: She Ended the Men's Club of National Politics

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Geraldine A. Ferraro, the former Queens congresswoman who strode onto a podium in 1984 to accept the Democratic nomination for vice president and to take her place in American history as the first woman nominated for national office by a major party, died Saturday in Boston.
She was 75 and lived in Manhattan.
The cause was complications from multiple myeloma, a blood cancer that she had battled for 12 years, her family said in a statement. She died at Massachusetts General Hospital, where she had been undergoing treatment since Monday.
''If we can do this, we can do anything,'' Ms. Ferraro declared on a July evening to a cheering Democratic National Convention in San Francisco. And for a moment, for the Democratic Party and for an untold number of American women, anything seemed possible: a woman occupying the second-highest office in the land, a derailing of the Republican juggernaut led by President Ronald Reagan, a President Walter F. Mondale. 
It did not turn out that way -- not by a long shot. After the roars in the Moscone Center had subsided and a fitful general election campaign had run its course, hopes for Mr. Mondale and his plain-speaking, barrier-breaking running mate were buried in a Reagan landslide.
But Ms. Ferraro's supporters proclaimed a victory of sorts nonetheless: 64 years after women won the right to vote, a woman had removed the ''men only'' sign from the White House door.
It would be another 24 years before another woman from a major party was nominated for vice president -- Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, the Republican running mate of Senator John McCain, in 2008. And though Hillary Rodham Clinton came close to being nominated that year as the Democratic presidential candidate, a woman has yet to occupy the Oval Office. But Ms. Ferraro's ascendance gave many women heart.
Ann Richards, who was the Texas state treasurer at the time and went on to become governor, recalled that after the Ferraro nomination, ''the first thing I thought of was not winning in the political sense, but of my two daughters.''
''To think,'' Ms. Richards added, ''of the numbers of young women who can now aspire to anything.''
In a statement, President Obama said Saturday, ''Geraldine will forever be remembered as a trailblazer who broke down barriers for women and Americans of all backgrounds and walks of life.''
As Mr. Mondale's surprise choice, Ms. Ferraro rocketed to national prominence, propelled by fervid feminist support, a spirited and sometimes saucy personality, canny political skills and the calculation by Democratic strategists that Reagan might be vulnerable on issues thought to be more important to women.
But it proved to be a difficult campaign. The incumbent Reagan-Bush ticket presented a formidable enough challenge in and of itself, but Ms. Ferraro found herself on the defensive almost from the start, answering critics who questioned her qualifications for high office. Then there were damaging revelations about the finances of her husband, John Zaccaro, forcing Ms. Ferraro to release his tax returns and hold a marathon news conference in the middle of the general election race. Some said she had become a liability to Mr. Mondale and only hurt his chances more.
Quick Study as Candidate
A former Queens criminal prosecutor, Ms. Ferraro was a vigorous but relatively inexperienced candidate with a better feel for urban ward politics than for international diplomacy. But she proved to be a quick study and came across as a new breed of feminist politician -- comfortable with the boys, particularly powerful Democrats like the House speaker, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., and less combative than predecessors like Representative Bella Abzug of New York.
She was also ideal for television: a down-to-earth, streaked-blond, peanut-butter-sandwich-making mother whose personal story resonated powerfully. Brought up by a single mother who had crocheted beads on wedding dresses to send her daughter to good schools, Ms. Ferraro had waited until her own children were school age before going to work in a Queens district attorney's office headed by a cousin.
In the 1984 race, many Americans found her breezy style refreshing. ''What are you -- crazy?'' was a familiar expression. She might break into a little dance behind the speaker's platform when she liked the introductory music. Feeling patronized by her Republican opponent, Vice President George Bush, she publicly scolded him.
With Ms. Ferraro on the ticket, Democrats hoped to exploit a so-called gender gap between the parties. A Newsweek poll taken after she was nominated showed men favoring Reagan-Bush 58 percent to 36 percent but women supporting Mondale-Ferraro 49 percent to 41 percent.
For the first time, a major candidate for national office talked about abortion with the phrase ''If I were pregnant,'' or about foreign policy with the personal observation ''As the mother of a draft-age son....'' She wore pearls and silk dresses and publicly worried that her slip was showing.
She also traveled a 55,000-mile campaign trail, spoke in 85 cities and raised $6 million. But in November the Democratic ticket won only one state -- Mr. Mondale's Minnesota -- and the District of Columbia.
And to the Democrats' chagrin, Mr. Reagan captured even the women's vote, drawing some 55 percent; women, it appeared, had opposed, almost as much as men, the tax increase that Mr. Mondale, a former senator and vice president under Jimmy Carter, had said in his acceptance speech would be inevitable, an attempt at straight talking that cost him dearly at the polls.
Most election analysts believed that from the start the Democratic ticket had little chance against a popular incumbent who was basking in an economic recovery and proclaiming that it was ''morning again in America.'' Some said the choice of the little-known Ms. Ferraro had been a desperate move to attract the female vote in a daunting election year. Compounding the campaign's woes was a barrage of questions about the Ferraro family finances -- often carrying insinuations about ties to organized crime -- that not only blemished Ms. Ferraro's stature as the first Italian-American national candidate but also diverted attention from other issues.
Ms. Ferraro's politics teetered from liberal positions, like her support for the Equal Rights Amendment for women and a nuclear freeze, to conservative ones, like her opposition to school busing and her support of tax credits for private and parochial school parents. In her first race for the House of Representatives, in 1978, from New York's Ninth Congressional District in Queens, a Republican stronghold, her slogan was ''Finally, a tough Democrat.''
The abortion issue, magnified because she was Roman Catholic and a woman, plagued her campaign. Though she opposed the procedure personally, she said, others had the right to choose for themselves. Abortion opponents hounded her at almost every stop with an intensity seldom experienced by male politicians.
Writing in The Washington Post in September 1984, the columnist Mary McGrory quoted an unnamed Roman Catholic priest as saying, ''When the nuns in the fifth grade told Geraldine she would have to die for her faith, she didn't know it would be this way.''
Named for a Brother
Geraldine Anne Ferraro was born on Aug. 26, 1935, in the Hudson River city of Newburgh, N.Y., where she was the fourth child and only daughter of Dominick Ferraro, an Italian immigrant who owned a restaurant and a five-and-dime store, and the former Antonetta L. Corrieri. One brother died shortly after birth, and another, Gerard, died in an automobile accident when he was 3, two years before Geraldine was born.
Geraldine was born at home; her mother, who had been holding Gerard at the time of the crash and who had washed and pressed his clothes for months after his death, would not go to the hospital for the delivery and leave the third brother, Carl, at home.
Geraldine was named for Gerard, but in her book ''Framing a Life: A Family Memoir,'' written with Catherine Whitney, Ms. Ferraro said her mother had emphasized that she was not taking his place.
''Gerry is special,'' she quoted her mother as saying, ''because she is a girl.''
Unknown to Ms. Ferraro at the time, her father had repeated trouble with the state liquor authorities and ultimately lost his restaurant license. During the vice-presidential campaign, she learned by reading The New York Post that her father had been arrested on charges of running a numbers racket but had died of a heart attack the morning he was to appear in court. Her mother was arrested as an accomplice, but the charges were dropped after her husband's death, Ms. Ferraro wrote.
She called her father's death, which happened when she was 8, ''a dividing line that runs through my life.'' In her grief, she said, she developed anemia.
Her mother soon sold the store and the family's house and moved to the South Bronx. With the proceeds from the sale of property in Italy that her husband had left her, she sent Geraldine to the Marymount School, a Catholic boarding school in Tarrytown, N.Y. She sent Carl to military school.
Ms. Ferraro's outstanding grades earned her a scholarship to Marymount College in Tarrytown, from which she transferred to the school's Manhattan branch. She commuted there from Queens, where her mother had moved by then. An English major, Ms. Ferraro was editor of the school newspaper and an athlete and won numerous honors before graduating in 1956. ''Delights in the unexpected,'' the yearbook said.
After graduating, Ms. Ferraro got a job teaching in a public grade school in Queens. She later applied to Fordham Law School, where an admissions officer warned her that she might be taking a man's place. Admitted to its night school, she was one of two women in a class of 179 and received her law degree in 1960.
Ms. Ferraro and John Zaccaro, whose family was in the real estate business, were married on July 16, 1960, two days after she passed her bar exam. She was admitted to the New York State bar in 1961, and decided to keep her maiden name professionally to honor her mother. (She was admitted to the United States Supreme Court bar in 1978.)
For the first 13 years of her marriage, Ms. Ferraro devoted herself mainly to her growing family. Donna was born in 1962, John in 1964 and Laura in 1966. Ms. Ferraro did some legal work for her husband's business, worked pro bono for women in Family Court and dabbled in local politics. In 1970 she was elected president of the Queens County Women's Bar Association.
In 1973, after her cousin Nicholas Ferraro was elected Queens district attorney, she applied for and got a job as an assistant district attorney in charge of a special victims bureau, investigating rape, crimes against the elderly, and child and wife abuse.
The cases were so harrowing, she later wrote, that they caused her to develop an ulcer. And the crime-breeding societal conditions she saw, she said, planted the seeds of her liberalism.
Sights Set on Congress
One night, before he became governor of New York, Mario M. Cuomo gave Ms. Ferraro and her husband a ride home from a bar mitzvah. She told him she was thinking of running for public office. ''What about Congress?'' Mr. Cuomo asked.
Ms. Ferraro found her opportunity in 1978, when James J. Delaney, a Democratic congressman from a predominantly working-class district in Queens, announced his retirement. In a three-way Democratic primary for the seat, Ms. Ferraro won with 53 percent of the vote. In the general election campaign, a slugfest against a Republican assemblyman, Alfred A. DelliBovi, she won by 10 percentage points, helped by her law-and-order background.
In the House, Ms. Ferraro was assigned to unglamorous committees but used them to her advantage. On the Public Works and Transportation Committee, she successfully pushed for improved mass transit around La Guardia Airport.
Mr. O'Neill, the speaker, took an immediate liking to her, and in her three terms she voted mostly with her party's leadership. Liberal and labor groups gave her high ratings, though she was less adamant than many liberal Democrats about cutting military spending.
Ms. Ferraro was a co-sponsor of the Economic Equity Act, which was intended to accomplish many of the aims of the never-ratified Equal Rights Amendment. She also supported federal financing for abortions.
''She manages to be threatening on issues without being threatening personally,'' Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, told The Chicago Tribune in 1984.
Others were less laudatory. ''Some see her as too compromising, too ambitious, too close to the leadership,'' The Washington Post wrote that same year.
Her friendship with Mr. O'Neill helped her career. Thanks in part to him, she was elected secretary of the Democratic caucus, giving her influence on committee assignments, and in 1983 she was awarded a seat on the powerful budget committee, where she received a crash course in economics. To enhance her foreign policy credentials, she took trips to Central America and the Middle East.
It was Ms. Ferraro's appointment as chairwoman of the 1984 Democratic Platform Committee that gave her the most prominence. In her book ''Ferraro: My Story,'' written with Linda Bird Francke, she said that in becoming the first woman to hold that post she owed much to a group of Democratic women -- Congressional staffers, abortion rights activists, labor leaders and others -- who called themselves Team A and who lobbied for her appointment.
Even before then, however, Ms. Ferraro's name had been mentioned on lists of potential candidates for vice president, along with Representative Patricia Schroeder of Colorado, the former congresswoman Barbara Jordan and Dianne Feinstein, the mayor of San Francisco. By May 1984, Mr. O'Neill had endorsed her for the No. 2 spot on the ticket. It was, as Ms. Ferraro later put it, ''the Good Housekeeping seal of approval.''
On July 1, the National Organization for Women threatened a convention floor fight if the Democrats did not choose a woman, and three days later a delegation of Democratic women went to Minnesota to urge Mr. Mondale to do so.
Mr. Mondale made his historic call, asking Ms. Ferraro to be his running mate, on July 11. His campaign believed that she would do well not only among women but also among blue-collar workers. Eight days later, wearing a white dress she had bought on Orchard Street on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, she accepted the Democratic nomination for vice president.
Trouble Over Finances
Her campaign was soon stalled by accusations about her personal finances. The storm reached its height in a two-hour press conference on Aug. 21, after Ms. Ferraro had released the tax returns of her husband, Mr. Zaccaro. She responded to question after question in a confident, relaxed manner. Mr. Cuomo called it ''one of the best performances I've ever seen by a politician under pressure.''
Ms. Ferraro later faced down hecklers in Texas and pro-Reagan auto workers in Illinois. After Vice President Bush was overheard bragging that ''we tried to kick a little ass last night,'' referring to a debate with Ms. Ferraro, she declined to comment directly, though her aides called the remark insulting and demeaning. There were signs at campaign rallies saying, ''Give 'em hell, Gerry!''
Everywhere people were adjusting -- or manifestly not adjusting -- to a woman on a national ticket. Mississippi's agriculture secretary called Ms. Ferraro ''young lady'' and asked if she could bake blueberry muffins. When a Roman Catholic bishop gave a news conference in Pennsylvania, he repeatedly referred to the Republican vice-presidential nominee as ''Mr. Bush'' and to the Democratic one as ''Geraldine.''
Ms. Ferraro's words raised hackles as well. She was criticized for suggesting that Reagan was not a ''good Christian'' because, she said, his policies hurt the disadvantaged.
Her inability to escape questions about her finances was partly brought on by her husband's initial refusal to release his tax returns. She riled Italian-Americans when she explained, ''If you're married to an Italian man, you know what it's like.''
When her financial situation was finally disclosed, it turned out that the candidate with the rags-to-riches story had a net worth approaching $4 million, a boat, a full-time uniformed maid and vacation homes on Fire Island in New York and in the Virgin Islands.
Mr. Bush's wife, Barbara, complained that Ms. Ferraro was masquerading as a working-class wife and mother, calling her a ''four-million-dollar -- I can't say it, but it rhymes with rich.''
Her associations and finances revealed one questionable thing after another. The Federal Election Commission fined her 1978 campaign committee for accepting $134,000 in contributions from her husband and children when they were legally allowed to contribute only $4,000.
Evidence also emerged that organized-crime figures had contributed to her campaigns. When a House ethics panel investigated her financial disclosures, it came out that one of Mr. Zaccaro's companies had rented two floors of a building to a pornography distributor.
The disclosures damaged a campaign that was already fighting an uphill battle; Mr. Mondale later said he thought they cost the campaign 15 percentage points in the polls. He also suggested that a male running mate might not have been dissected so severely. After the election, the House ethics committee determined that Ms. Ferraro's financial disclosures had been inadequate. In 1986, the elections commission said one of her campaign committees had improperly allocated funds.
Ms. Ferraro's family experienced legal problems of its own. In 1985, Mr. Zaccaro pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge that he had schemed to defraud a mortgage broker. Two years later he was acquitted of attempted extortion in a cable television company's bid to get a Queens franchise. And in 1988 the couple's son, John Jr., was convicted of a felony for selling cocaine in Vermont while a student at Middlebury College.
After her defeat in 1984, Ms. Ferraro was criticized for appearing in a Diet Pepsi commercial. Feminists in particular called it undignified.
She is survived by her husband, three children and eight grandchildren.
Later Bids for Office
Weary of the spotlight on her family, Ms. Ferraro passed up a chance to challenge Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, in his bid for a second term in 1986. But she decided to seek the seat in 1992 and entered the Democratic primary. She finished 10,000 votes (1 percent of the total) behind Robert Abrams, the state attorney general, who lost to Mr. D'Amato in the general election. She again ran for the Senate in 1998 but lost to Charles E. Schumer in the Democratic primary by a lopsided margin.
Ms. Ferraro was later ambassador to the United Nations Human Rights Commission during the Clinton administration and co-host of the CNN program ''Crossfire'' from 1996 to 1998. She also wrote books and articles and did business consulting.
Near the end of 1998, she learned she had multiple myeloma, a bone-marrow cancer that suppresses the immune system. She was one of the first cancer patients to be treated with thalidomide, a drug used in the 1960s to treat morning sickness that caused severe defects in unborn children.
''Such a strange thing,'' Ms. Ferraro said in an interview with The New York Times in 2001. ''What was terrible for a healthy fetus has been wonderful at defeating the cancer cells.''
She addressed her place in history in a long letter to The Times in 1988, noting that women wrote to her about how she had inspired them to take on challenges, ''always adding a version of 'I decided if you could do it, I can too.' '' Schoolgirls, she said, told her they hoped to be president someday and needed advice.
''I am the first to admit that were I not a woman, I would not have been the vice-presidential nominee,'' she wrote. But she insisted that her presence on the ticket had translated into votes that the ticket might otherwise have not received.
In any event, she said, the political realities of 1984 had made it all but impossible for the Democrats to win, no matter the candidates or their gender. ''Throwing Ronald Reagan out of office at the height of his popularity, with inflation and interest rates down, the economy moving and the country at peace, would have required God on the ticket,'' Ms. Ferraro wrote, ''and She was not available!''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 2011; April 3, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of a video associated with this article misstated the year Ms. Ferraro was nominated for vice president. It was 1984, not 1983.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption last Sunday with an obituary about Geraldine A. Ferraro, the first woman from a major party to be nominated for vice president in American history, misstated, in some editions, the result of Ms. Ferraro's 1992 race for United States Senate from New York. She lost the Democratic primary to the state attorney general, Robert Abrams, by a margin of 1 percent of the vote; she did not get only 1 percent of the vote.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Geraldine A. Ferraro at the Democratic convention in 1984. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
ON THE TICKET: Geraldine A. Ferraro, who ran for the vice presidency in 1984, with the Democratic candidate Walter F. Mondale in Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
FAMILY IN THE SPOTLIGHT: Above, Ms. Ferraro with her mother, Antonetta, in 1984. At left, with her husband, John Zaccaro, and her son, John Zaccaro Jr., at the Addison County Courthouse in Vermont, for a pre-trial hearing where her son faced charges of selling cocaine. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RON FREHM/ASSOCIATED PRESS
UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL)
GOING AGAINST CANCER: Ms. Ferraro in 2001. She had been battling multiple myeloma, a disease of the blood, since 1998. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24)
 CAMPAIGNING: Ms. Ferraro sought a Senate seat in 1992 but finished 10,000 votes (1 percent of the total) behind the Democratic primary winner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); WOMEN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); MEN (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); HISTORY (72%); BLOOD DISORDERS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (50%)

RONALD REAGAN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2011



642 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1855 words

HEADLINE: Modern Marvel

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
AXEL ALONSO, the new editor in chief of Marvel Comics, was recalling how, about 10 years ago, when he was less experienced and recently hired by the company, he persuaded the British writer Peter Milligan to take over a struggling superhero comic called X-Force.
''We drank all night, to the degree I realized I can't go home because I'll be sick,'' said Mr. Alonso, a lean man of 45 with a bald head and a close-cropped beard. ''We walked around all night, got breakfast the next day. I said, 'So, you're writing this.' He said, 'Yeah, I'm writing this.' ''
With some wistfulness, Mr. Alonso added, ''Those were the days.''
In the year 2011 this is how the day-to-day destiny of Marvel Entertainment, the home of universally recognized characters like Spider-Man, Iron Man and the mighty Thor, and whose publishing division releases 60 to 90 comic books a month, is now determined. 
One day last month in the company's office in Midtown Manhattan, its top creative talent -- 30 or so people, mostly male, many bald or bearded, or both -- were gathered in a conference room known as the Hulk room, for what felt like the simultaneous meetings of a corporation, a television writing staff and the traders of the New York Stock Exchange.
One by one the Marvel editors who surrounded the long conference table stepped to the front of the room and delivered rigorous but colorful PowerPoint presentations on their coming comics, with story lines plotted out for months or years in advance: Who would join the Fantastic Four to replace the Human Torch, who fell in battle to the evil Annihilus? Who might be the new adversary for the blind vigilante Daredevil? What would Galactus, the planet-eating cosmic entity, consume next, and did anyone have a young hero ready to graduate to the X-Men?
Though the meeting could at times be rigidly precise, it had moments of spontaneity (like when Brian Michael Bendis, the author of Marvel's Avengers, New Avengers and Ultimate Spider-Man series, observed that an enigmatic writer named TBD ''has got a lot of books'' assigned).
Similarly Marvel, which has produced comics in various forms since 1939, is a company that teems with talent while it is confined by its traditions and is enjoying a hard-fought moment in the spotlight while it grapples with larger difficulties afflicting the publishing world.
Marvel, acquired in 2009 by the Walt Disney Company, can make a claim to being the No. 1 publisher in its field, often beating its rival DC Comics, the home of Batman, Superman and Wonder Woman, owned by Time Warner, in the total number and dollar value of comics it sells each month.
There will also be an avalanche of mass entertainment featuring Marvel characters this year, including new movies based on the X-Men, Thor and Captain America, and someday, surely, the opening of the Broadway musical ''Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark.''
But these opportunities arrive as the comics industry is still struggling to adapt to the 21st century, and Marvel's core business faces some of the toughest challenges in its history. While its movie business thrives, its print business is contracting, and those responsible for creating its comics -- a seemingly seat-of-the-pants enterprise -- are more cognizant than ever of their place within a larger corporate structure.
''If comics is sick, it's not a broken arm, it's diabetes,'' said Tom Spurgeon, a journalist who covers the industry for the Web site The Comics Reporter. ''There's no easy solution.''
Marvel has certainly rebounded from the period in the 1990s when it sought bankruptcy protection amid a fight between the financiers Ronald O. Perelman, who had bought Marvel and combined it with other collectibles companies, and Carl C. Icahn, who sought control of it. (A third entrepreneur, Isaac Perlmutter, acquired the company and is now Marvel's chief executive.)
The months and years Marvel's creative staff members spent fearing for their own fates left them shellshocked and uncertain of what to do in their comics. ''It was incredibly frightening,'' said Joe Quesada, who was named Marvel's editor in chief in 2000. ''It's that looking over the precipice and seeing nothing but sky, and hoping that when you jump off, you can fly.''
Mr. Quesada, who last year was named Marvel's chief creative officer, said his strategy as editor had been to ''focus on writers first, and then bring in the artists.'' The company regained its footing as it brought in authors like Mr. Bendis, Mark Millar and Ed Brubaker, recruited from rival publishers, as well as screenwriters like Joss Whedon (the creator of ''Buffy the Vampire Slayer''). And it found best sellers with mini-series, like House of M (written by Mr. Bendis) and Civil War (by Mr. Millar), that featured almost every major superhero in the Marvel pantheon.
Marvel also benefited as movie franchises like ''Spider-Man'' and ''X-Men'' became blockbusters and brought new attention to its characters. (They also helped overshadow other movies based on Marvel characters, like ''The Punisher'' and ''Elektra,'' that struggled at the box office.)
The company reached a turning point during the making of the 2008 film ''Iron Man,'' which was produced by its own Marvel Studios in California and starred Robert Downey Jr. as the armor-clad hero. During the movie's development Marvel invited some of its editors and writers, including Mr. Quesada and Mr. Alonso, to consult with its director, Jon Favreau. And Mr. Bendis even helped write a post-closing-credits sequence that introduced Samuel L. Jackson as Nick Fury, director of the spy agency S.H.I.E.L.D.
When ''Iron Man'' (released by Paramount) went on to sell $585 million in tickets worldwide, its success seemed to validate the suggestions from its publishing talent. That led to the formal creation of what Marvel calls its creative committee: Mr. Quesada, Mr. Bendis and Dan Buckley, the Marvel comics publisher, meet several times a year with Marvel studio executives to discuss film and multimedia projects.
Though Marvel's publishing side does not directly control the content of Marvel films, Kevin Feige, the president of production at Marvel Studios, said the storytelling in the comics had a strong influence on the movies ''because it's a hell of a lot less expensive to take a chance in a comic than it is take a chance in a movie.'' Repeating a phrase he said he had heard from Mr. Quesada, he added, ''It's the cheapest R&D there is, but the best R&D there is.''
What is less clear is if superhero movies influence readers to buy more comics. Rich Johnston, who writes about comics at the Web site Bleeding Cool, said Marvel was just as likely alienating fans by preparing for the releases of Marvel Studios-produced movies like ''Thor'' (which opens May 6), ''Captain America: The First Avenger'' (July 22) and ''The Avengers'' (planned for May 2012) with the publication of lots of comic books and graphic novels featuring these characters.
''In order to read Thor,'' Mr. Johnston said, exaggerating a bit, ''you have to buy 10 mini-series for $4 an issue at 22 pages each.'' Anticipating a reader's reaction, he added: ''You know what? Let's not.''
A more worrisome problem, Mr. Johnston said, was a sense of ''ennui amongst Marvel readers,'' who have become tired of the publisher's reliance on annual companywide mini-series, like House of M and Civil War, to shake up the status quo in its narratives while its monthly comics advance these soap operas infinitesimally.
Mr. Spurgeon of The Comics Reporter agreed that comics fans ''feel the strategy of it,'' and that ''it's really easy for an exhaustion to set in.''
Sales figures seem to bear this out: In 2006 and 2007 Civil War, in which Iron Man and Captain America battled over whether superheroes should register their powers and identities with the government, sold nearly 300,000 copies an issue. But last year the mini-series Siege, in which Captain America, Iron Man and Thor were reunited, sold just over 100,000 copies an issue. (This hasn't discouraged Marvel from moving forward this year with the companywide mini-series Fear Itself, which will emphasize Thor and Captain America.)
From the outside Marvel is buffeted by big-picture publishing crises: the closing of comics shops and bookstores, a downturn in sales lingering through the recession and the increasing threat of digital piracy.
From within, the company wrestles with narrative strategies and promotional events that will lure new or lapsed readers while trying to satisfy the hard-core fans who have followed its heroes' adventures for years, if not decades.
''We love the guys that have been here every month,'' said Tom Brevoort, Marvel's senior vice president for publishing, who joined the company as a college intern in 1989. ''But it's not an exclusive relationship. It's an open marriage where we see and seek others as well -- and as many others as we can get in.''
Yet Marvel and the industry journalists said the company's publishing business is still profitable. Mr. Johnston estimated that a comic book that sold as few as 20,000 or 30,000 copies could still make money. And while the full effects of the company's purchase by Disney are an open question, the opportunities created by the deal were potentially exciting.
''I can't even speculate,'' Mr. Brevoort said. ''There is 'Disney on Ice.' It's not a great stretch to go, 'There will someday be ''Marvel on Ice,'' ' whether that's 'Iron Man on Ice' or 'The Avengers on Ice.' ''
(And while Marvel's editors have no hand in the struggles surrounding ''Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark,'' they were unconcerned that the musical would hurt the character or his legacy. ''Spider-Man's been around longer than I've been alive,'' Mr. Alonso said.)
Mr. Alonso works in a small office that, on a recent visit, was minimally decorated with pictures of his 8-year-old son, Tito, and a peculiar 1984 Marvel comic chronicling the life of Mother Teresa. (''I keep that so whenever anybody comes into the office, they're fooled into thinking that I'm chaste,'' he said.)
In January, when he was elevated to the editor in chief's chair once held by Stan Lee, the venerated writer who helped create the Fantastic Four, Spider-Man, and countless other enduring Marvel characters, he became only the third person in 15 years to hold the position, and one of the few in the company's history to gain it without tumult or corporate bloodshed.
Mr. Alonso said he lacked the chest-puffing showmanship of some of his predecessors, but he seemed to appreciate the wonderment and the obligation that come with the job.
''There's no type of fiction that comes close to comics for the layers of storytelling,'' he said. ''This is mythology, but it's not mythology that's refined slightly over time. It's mythology that's constantly evolving.''
For all that has changed about his industry, Mr. Alonso said he was still thrilled by the sight of newly published comics being delivered to his workplace, or simply receiving an e-mail from Mr. Lee congratulating him on his promotion.
''I giggled like a schoolgirl when Stan e-mailed me,'' he said. ''I'm going to frame it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARVEL CHARACTERS INC.)(AR1)
Clockwise from top: the Marvel executives, from left, Axel Alonso, Tom Brevoort, Joe Quesada and Dan Buckley
Chris Hemsworth, left, and Anthony Hopkins in ''Thor''
Chris Evans and Hayley Atwell, right, in ''Captain America''
James McAvoy, left, and Michael Fassbender in ''X-Men: First Class''
and the covers for The Invincible Iron Man, Captain America and an X-Men special issue. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ZADE ROSENTHAL/MARVEL STUDIOS
JAY MAIDMENT/MARVEL STUDIOS
MURRAY CLOSE/20TH CENTURY FOX
 MARVEL CHARACTERS INC.(AR12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); COMIC BOOK & GRAPHIC NOVEL PUBLISHING (78%); HAIR LOSS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); DC ENTERTAINMENT INC (50%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (60%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (60%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (60%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (60%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



643 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Mexican? American? Call Her Writer

BYLINE: By ROB WEINERT-KENDT

 BODY:
IN reviewing the ebullient play ''Kita y Fernanda'' in 2008, a Chicago critic called its young author, Tanya Saracho, ''the Chicana Chekhov'' for her deft blend of comedy and drama. It's hardly surprising, then, that the vehicle that brings Ms. Saracho to the Goodman Theater in Chicago this week is her loose adaptation of Chekhov's ''Cherry Orchard,'' titled ''El Nogalar,'' which she sets against the bloody backdrop of Mexico's drug wars.
But the story behind Ms. Saracho's rise from scrappy storefront theaters to national stature is, like the playwright herself, more complicated than that clever, alliterative epithet would suggest.
For starters, though Ms. Saracho happily accepted the Chekhov comparison, she doesn't identify as Chicana -- a self-assigned term associated with a particular West Coast Mexican-American sensibility. She doesn't even consider herself Mexican-American. A native of the northwestern Mexican state of Sinaloa and raised mostly in the border towns of Reynosa, Mexico, and McAllen, Tex., Ms. Saracho, 34, is a green-card-carrying Mexican citizen living in the United States still torn about joining the country she's called home since 1989. 
Her long-standing ambivalence isn't just a matter of paperwork; literal and figurative borders fire Ms. Saracho's best writing. The title characters of the autobiographical ''Kita y Fernanda'' are the daughters of the live-in maid and the woman of the house, respectively, who grow up together over treacherous fault lines of class and language. In 2009's ''Our Lady of the Underpass'' Ms. Saracho turned a series of interviews with a diverse group of Chicagoans into a suite of monologues about an image of the Virgin Mary allegedly sighted on a concrete wall under the Kennedy Expressway.
And in ''El Nogalar,'' which translates as ''The Pecan Orchard,'' Ms. Saracho has set Chekhov's final play amid the violence that has enveloped Mexico's northern states.
''Every time we go home, it's all we talk about, because it's all there is,'' Ms. Saracho said. ''Right now we're held hostage by this thing. It's so complicated that it has no name, but we all know what we're talking about.''
The adaptation came about in part because the Latino theater company Teatro Vista, which is producing ''El Nogalar'' with the Goodman, was looking for classics to adapt with a Latino spin -- and partly because Ms. Saracho has a big mouth.
She was talking at a cocktail party, ''and I was like, 'The most Latino playwright I encountered in college was Chekhov,' and then someone took me up on it,'' said Ms. Saracho, whose conversation spills out in digressive torrents that might brand her as a fresa, the Mexican version of a Valley Girl, but for the heady subject matter.
According to Cecilie Keenan, who is directing the Goodman premiere, what links ''The Cherry Orchard'' to ''El Nogalar'' is the jarring spectacle of reverse migration.
''I asked Tanya: 'What about the fact that our economy's kind of tanking now? Aren't rich Mexicans going back home because there's nothing to do here?' '' Ms. Keenan said. ''And she was like, 'You know, they are.' '' So the return of Chekhov's debt-ridden Madame Ranevsky from Paris to her soon-to-be-auctioned Russian estate becomes, in Ms. Saracho's play, the story of Senora Maite, alighting obliviously at her family home in northeastern Mexico, where nothing so gentle as an auction threatens the property.
In Ms. Saracho's compressed time frame the local drug mafia steadily tightens its grip over a few urgent days, compared with the fateful ebbing summer of ''The Cherry Orchard.'' And, in a marked departure from Chekhov's famous dictum that a gun shown in a play's first act must be fired in the second, ''El Nogalar'' features this sassy stage direction: ''Lopez goes for his piece. Yes, old boy is packing, O.K.? But just don't make a big deal out of it ever. This is just what the men do now.''
Like many young theater artists Ms. Saracho moved to Chicago for its reputation as a no-nonsense stage town and helped form a small company, Teatro Luna, to create work -- in her case, frank, funny monologues inspired by her own experiences. But her ambition and achievement quickly outpaced the solo format. The way she tells it, she was plucked from a happy fringe career by the city's larger institutions; the way others tell it, her potential practically forced them to act.
''She's the first really viable local Latino playwright we've had,'' said Henry Godinez, a co-founder of Teatro Vista, who joined the Goodman's artistic staff in 1996 and has remained a bridge between the two companies. In 2008, with the encouragement of mentors like Mr. Godinez, Ms. Saracho had assignments from Chicago's two biggest theaters: ''Our Lady of the Underpass,'' which the Goodman commissioned and Teatro Vista produced, and an adaptation of Sandra Cisneros's ''House on Mango Street'' for Steppenwolf Theater Company.
With these gains in profile came some wrenching transitions. She quit Teatro Luna a year ago, a decision that still clearly pains her. And she's now working on plays that will feature no Latino characters: a commission from About Face, Chicago's gay-oriented theater, for a play about the transgender Civil War soldier Albert Cashier, for which Ms. Saracho received a $20,000 grant from the National Endowment for the Arts, and a commission from Steppenwolf to write a play for its mostly white acting ensemble.
''Tanya is now facing the idea that she's going to have a national role,'' said Polly Carl, Steppenwolf's director of artistic development. ''She realizes the unfortunate, in a way, responsibility she is taking on. No playwright should have to take on the voice of a people. What we're telling her is that she can write about anything.''
What Ms. Saracho seems destined to write about, no matter the place, is socioeconomic class. Raised comfortably in an upper-middle-class family, she said she didn't confront prejudice against Mexicans -- or the troubling notion that she was exempt because of her privilege and her fair skin -- until she moved to Chicago. In part that's why Ms. Saracho has beefed up the role of the social-climbing character of Dunyasha in ''Cherry Orchard,'' renamed Dunia in her play.
''Dunyasha became my obsession,'' Ms. Saracho confessed. ''Dunyasha wants to be white, and we have that whole race shame in Mexico. You don't even say it. It just is. When you see who's serving who, who's in power, it's evident. I don't look at it when I'm down there, but when I look at it with binoculars from up here, I do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Mexican-born playwright Tanya Saracho, whose play ''El Nogalar'' will have its premiere at the Goodman Theater, has been hired to write plays for About Face, a gay-oriented theater, and the Steppenwolf Theater Company, both in Chicago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); WRITERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MCALLEN, TX, USA (79%) WEST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



644 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2012 FIAT 500; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: Petite Italian Model Seeks Love in America

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
THREE years ago in Italy, as I was preparing to drive the reborn Fiat 500, a company spokesman had a point he wished to emphasize. ''Let me be clear,'' said the spokesman, Richard Gadeselli. ''There are no plans to sell this car in the U.S.''
Wink, wink.
Fast-forward to March 2011. Fiat 500s made specifically for the American market are rolling off an assembly line in Toluca, Mexico, at a Chrysler plant that once turned out PT Cruisers. 
We had suspected in 2008 -- and now know for sure -- that Fiat's chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, was already laying plans to reintroduce Fiat to the United States after a quarter-century hiatus, using the tiny but Euro-stylish 500 to establish a beachhead.
So as 500s finally appear on American roads, a lot is riding on the minicar's small shoulders. Success is by no means guaranteed, but over the last half-century or so, the 500 -- Cinquecento, in Italian -- has beaten longer odds.
When it appeared in 1957, the Nuova 500 -- an all-new small car, though its numerical name had been used for Fiats dating to the tiny Topolino of the late 1930s -- did not seem like a legend in the making. The tiny car was flimsy, gutless and smoky. And in the hands of Italy's famously free-spirited drivers, it could be something of a deathtrap.
But the 500 -- incrementally refined in successive years -- proved a mighty mite; Fiat sold nearly four million over the next two decades. Many consider the 500 the car that helped to modernize war-ravaged Italy, as well as a force in its postwar industrial recovery.
But sales lagged by 1975, when Fiat phased out the 500 in most markets. Still, the car refused to die; a robust aftermarket in spare parts sprang up, enthusiasts kept many on the road and collectors restored them to pristine condition. A cult following was born.
In this, and in many other central aspects, the arc of the 500's story is comparable to that of Britain's Mini and Germany's Volkswagen Beetle. After successful recreations of the Mini brand (now part of the BMW Group) and the Beetle, Fiat decided a 21st century version of the 500 might also be in order. In 2007, the 500 returned to Europe.
Back then, I was entertained, but not all that impressed, by my test drive in the reborn 500. Though generally reliable, it was still minimal transportation. At autostrada speeds exceeding 80 miles per hour it did not inspire confidence. The lackluster interior didn't measure up to the retro-chic body.
Over the years, Fiat has addressed most of the reborn 500's teething problems, and sales have been impressive: nearly 700,000 new 500s have been sold since 2007. The little two-door won the European Car of the Year Award in 2008 and a variety of honors since.
The week before my test drive of an American-market 500 -- a 2012 model -- I returned to Italy to drive a 2011 European version to serve as a benchmark. In those back-to-back tests -- each of more than 1,000 miles, and each from near sea level up to snowy, 10,000-foot mountain passes, then back -- I judged the European 500 much improved.
But then I drove the Americanized 500 through the American Southwest and concluded that it is the best 500 yet. Fiat seems to agree, because most of the changes and improvements for the American model will soon be incorporated into versions sold elsewhere.
From the beginning, there was much room for improvement. The 1957-model 500 -- a designation created by rounding up the size of its 479 cubic centimeter 2-cylinder engine -- was pushed along by just 13 horsepower. By today's standards, that seems as underpowered as a snail, but it didn't have a lot to push: the '57 model weighed just 1,100 pounds and was less than 10 feet long.
Current-generation models are nearly two feet longer, and weigh roughly twice as much, as the originals. The new 500 also has its engine, transmission and drive wheels in front; the original carried all that in the rear. Both the original and the new cars seat four, but today's occupants are treated much more comfortably.
The model I drove in Italy in 2007 had a puny 1.2-liter 4-cylinder engine generating 68 horsepower. My 2011 European test car benefited from a new 900 cc TwinAir engine, though it was hindered by a balky Dualogic 5-speed auto-stick transmission -- a feature that, thankfully, isn't coming to America.
American-spec 500s benefit from an advanced 101-horsepower 1.4-liter MultiAir 4-cylinder. There is a penalty in fuel economy for that relative abundance of extra power; I averaged over 50 m.p.g. in the 2011 European model but just 32 to 33 in the 2012 American version. Lighter right feet than mine have produced better results.
The 5-speed manual -- a 6-speed automatic was not available at introduction -- seemed well matched to the motor. (And here's hoping the manual inspires more Americans to learn how to use a clutch.)
Federal mileage ratings are 30 miles per gallon in town, 38 on the highway, with the manual, and 27/34 with the fully automatic transmission added for clutch-phobic Americans. Fiat recommends premium fuel for best performance, but says it is not necessary.
With the manual gearbox, the 500 can be a devilish little treat to drive: spunky, spirited and sporty. It was a hoot in town as I sawed through the gears, zipping in and out of traffic and happily tooting the horn, usually in response to admirers.
The driving experience was enhanced by comfortable seating, good visibility, a thick steering wheel and an armrest not found in European models.
The American 500 has gained 80 or so pounds, which Fiat says improves the car's crashworthiness. A company spokesman, Ariel Gavilan, said the car had not yet been subjected to federal crash tests. Nor has it yet been crash-tested by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.
The additional weight helps, along with suspension fine-tuning, to steady the 500 on the road; the Sport model's larger wheels and tires add a measure of extra stability. New antilock brakes stop confidently.
Zipping up a mountain road in Utah, I was shocked to find I had taken a curve at a speed far faster than the posted 55 m.p.h. But the 500 felt rock-solid nonetheless. On the autostrada, the Euro model had felt darty and unsettled by pavement flaws.
While the 500 looks small indeed from the outside -- especially in America, where the scale of vehicles is so much larger -- the interior does not seem claustrophobic. The cabin feels airy, with large windows and an available panoramic glass sunroof. (It vents, but is too large to retract.)
The seats (and cup holders) were reconfigured to accommodate fuller-figured Americans. The rear seatbacks fold down, expanding a smallish luggage space otherwise accessible only via the hatchback. American versions are noticeably quieter inside. To cope with North America's temperature extremes, the heating and air-conditioning system was improved.
With 14 exterior paints, 14 interior treatments and many options, patient shoppers are likely to find their preferred combination of color, capability and charisma -- Fiat says more than 500,000 combinations are possible.
The Pop trim level ($16,000) comes with a manual transmission, 15-inch wheels and tires and the basic amenities. The Sport version ($17,500) gets 16-inch wheels and tires, a tauter driver-selectable suspension, a small spoiler and bits of sportier trim. The high-character Lounge model ($19,500) loses the bigger wheels and tires, but gets the glass roof, automatic transmission, Bose sound system, color-keyed instrument panel and upholstery, Bluetooth wireless connection and media jacks.
Given that some older Americans' Fiat memories may center on roadside breakdowns and maintenance nightmares, the company is offering a four-year, 50,000-mile warranty with 6roadside assistance. (The only mechanical issue I encountered in all of my tests was a broken interior door handle.)
Fiat is aiming at the Mini Cooper, a car that is at least seven inches longer. Fiat insists that its minicar costs thousands of dollars less than a comparably equipped Mini or New Beetle.
Whether the American public will as warmly embrace the 500 as it has the Mini or New Beetle remains to be seen. But during my test drives in America, I found the admiring glances handily out-numbered the few negative responses. In California, we were stopped by an agriculture inspector who wanted only to talk about the car, not whether there was illegal produce inside it.
The consensus of people I invited along as passengers was that traveling in the car made them feel young, sporty and ''very European.'' And the arrival of such an economical car as gas prices flirt with $4 a gallon seems timely.
Now, if you can just find one. Laura Soave, the head of Fiat North America, had said earlier this month that 64 dealers would be in place by the end of March. But as of last week, only 18 stores were open. Eventually, Fiat plans a network of 130 dealerships in 37 states.
Delivery of special-order models is also taking a bit long: six to eight weeks, if you can't find the combination you want in stock. But a dealer in Los Angeles said cars were arriving ''by the truckload,'' with plenty of the most-requested combinations available.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EYE APPEAL: Fiat has returned to the United States with its high-style 500.(AU1)
 SPUNKY: A new engine and other changes make the 500 more fun to drive.(AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (92%); BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (84%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%); BMW (FRA) (84%); BMW (BIT) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (84%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ITALY (93%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2011



645 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
BMW of North America, Woodcliff Lake, N.J., is placing in review most of the BMW brand creative work in North America, which has been divided among various agencies. Spending for the BMW brand totaled $272 million in 2007, $248.3 million in 2008, $206.7 million in 2009 and $251.9 million last year, according to the Kantar Media unit of WPP. National creative duties have been handled on a project basis by Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, owned by MDC Partners.
That assignment began in October, after BMW parted ways with GSD&M, Austin, Tex., part of the Omnicom Group. Creative duties for regional dealer advertising have been handled by Grey West, San Francisco, part of the Grey unit of the Grey Group, owned by WPP. And the creative duties for multicultural marketing efforts have been shared by Matlock Advertising and Public Relations, Atlanta, for ads aimed at African-Americans, and Bromley Communications, San Antonio, for ads aimed at Spanish-speaking consumers.
All the incumbent agencies are being invited to take part in the review, which will be handled by Roth Observatory International, New York. The Dotglu unit of Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal is digital agency of record for BMW; that assignment is not part of the review. 
Office Depot, Boca Raton, Fla., and Y&R, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of WPP, said in a joint statement on Friday that they had ''agreed to part ways as a result of evolving marketing needs.'' Y&R, led by its New York office, had created campaigns for Office Depot in North America since September 2008. Spending last year was estimated at $60 million. The loss is the most recent in a string for Y&R that also includes various Dr Pepper Snapple Group soft drinks and Hilton Hotels; the agency changed chief executives last month.
Norwegian Cruise Line, Miami, named the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as its agency of record. The assignment, with spending estimated at $50 million, had been handled by GSD&M, Austin, Tex., part of the Omnicom Group.
Steak 'n Shake, part of Biglari Holdings, Indianapolis, selected Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, as its creative agency of record. The account, with estimated spending last year of $17.7 million, had most recently been unassigned to a creative agency. Steak 'n Shake, known for its slogan, ''Famous for steakburgers,'' has about 500 restaurants.
Century 21 Real Estate, Parsippany, N.J., part of the Realogy Corporation, hired Red Tettemer & Partners, Philadelphia, as agency of record. It was the second change in a year for the assignment, with spending estimated at $10 million to $15 million; in March 2o10, Century 21 hired MRM Worldwide, New York, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, to replace McGarryBowen, New York, a unit of Dentsu. Century 21 will continue to work with another Interpublic agency, Mullen, Boston, which handles social media; Mullen was also hired in March 2010.
Transitions Optical, Pinellas Park, Fla., named MPG, Boston, part of the Havas Media unit of Havas, as its media agency of record. Spending was estimated at $17 million. The assignment had been handled by Zenith Media, New York, part of the ZenithOptimedia unit of the Publicis Groupe. Transitions is a joint venture of PPG Industries and Essilor International.
The Carolina Beverage Corporation, Salisbury, N.C., chose Woods Witt Dealy & Sons, New York, as agency of record for Cheerwine, a regional soft drink with a devoted following. The account, with spending estimated at $2 million to $4 million, had been handled by the Hauser Group, Atlanta, which was recently acquired by another Atlanta agency, Ames Scullin O'Haire.
People
Ron Berger, North American executive chairman at Euro RSCG Worldwide, New York, part of the Havas Worldwide unit of Havas, is leaving the agency, he and Euro RSCG said in a joint statement. His departure ends a 25-year career at the agency and its predecessors like Messner Vetere Berger McNamee Schmetterer Euro RSCG. Mr. Berger is a past chairman of the 4A's and a chairman emeritus of Advertising Week. He is now leading an industry advisory board that works with the High School for Innovation in Advertising and Media in Canarsie, Brooklyn.
Kelly Zuk, creative director at Darling Agency, New York, was promoted to president, a new post, and will continue as creative director.
Lori Robinson joined Carmichael Lynch Spong in a new post, as senior principal director of the New York office, which she will lead. She had most recently been senior vice president and director for marketing and business development at Hill & Knowlton U.S., New York, part of the Hill & Knowlton unit of WPP.
Paul Aaron joined Amalgamated, New York, as director for interactive, a new post. He had most recently been executive interactive producer at Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami, part of MDC Partners.
Joe Marchese joined Fuse, New York, the cable music channel that is part of the MSG Media unit of Madison Square Garden, as senior vice president for digital and marketing strategy, a new post. He had been president at SocialVibe, Los Angeles.
Miscellany
The principals of Brodeur Partners, Boston, bought back a majority stake in the agency from the Omnicom Group, New York, which will now hold a minority stake. Financial terms were not disclosed. Omnicom bought Brodeur in 1993. Brodeur is being reorganized around four business areas: Brodeur Communications, Brodeur Digital, Brodeur Shift Positive and Brodeur Strategies.
Brooklyn Brothers, New York and London, opened an office in Curitiba, Brazil, to be led by Leandro Monteiro and Henrique Souza.
Wong Doody, Seattle and Los Angeles, was renamed Wong, Doody, Crandall, Wiener, reflecting the contributions of two partners, Court Crandall and Ben Wiener.
The Cinema Advertising Council, New York, reported that ad revenue last year of member companies totaled $658.3 million, an increase of 12.7 percent from $584.1 million in 2009. The revenue was composed of regional and national ad sales, up 13.9 percent, and local ad sales, up 8.2 percent. The organization said that its members accounted for more than 90 percent of movie screens in the United States.
The Advertising Research Foundation, New York, has presented the A.R.F. David Ogilvy Awards for Excellence in Advertising Research for 2011. Domino's Pizza won the A.R.F. Grand Ogilvy Award, for its ''pizza turnaround'' campaign; the creative and media agency was Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, and the research was conducted by that agency and Millward Brown, part of WPP. The Research Achievement Award was presented to the Census Bureau campaign to encourage participation in the 2010 Census. The creative agency was DraftFCB, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies; DraftFCB also handled the media duties with another Interpublic media agency, Initiative. The research was conducted by Applied Research and Consulting. And the Research Innovation Award was won by Kimberly-Clark, for the ''Break the cycle'' campaign for Kotex. The creative agency was Organic, part of the Omnicom Group; the media agency was Mindshare, part of the GroupM unit of WPP; and the research was conducted by Marina Maher Communications and Millward Brown.
BIA/Kelsey, Chantilly, Va., and Boston, forecast continued movement of advertising dollars spent in digital media by local marketers. Such ad spending will increase to $42.5 billion by 2015, the company predicted, compared with $21.7 billion last year.
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals agreed to stop distributing postcards bearing a cartoon protesting the seal hunt in Canada after complaints from Beam Global Wine and Spirits, the parent of Canadian Club whiskey. The cartoon showed a seal telling a bartender, ''Anything but a Canadian Club,'' written in the script that the whiskey brand uses on its labels and in ads. The postcards also bore a photograph of a hunter clubbing a seal. Letters from Beam shared with reporters by PETA said the company's complaints centered on ''protection of our important intellectual property rights'' rather than the Canadian government's policy on the annual seal hunt.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (74%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); HOTEL CHAINS (73%); SOFT DRINKS (67%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%); RESTAURANTS (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); CRUISES (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (93%); WPP PLC (92%); BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (90%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (85%); REALOGY CORP (61%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (60%); BROMLEY COMMUNICATIONS (58%); MDC PARTNERS INC (57%); DR PEPPER SNAPPLE GROUP INC (53%); NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (53%); HILTON WORLDWIDE (53%); BIGLARI HOLDINGS INC (52%); CENTURY 21 REAL ESTATE CORP (51%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (93%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (92%); WPP (LSE) (92%); BMW (FRA) (90%); BMW (BIT) (90%); IPG (NYSE) (85%); MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%); DPS (NYSE) (53%); NCLH (NASDAQ) (53%); BH (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (92%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); NAICS541191 TITLE ABSTRACT & SETTLEMENT OFFICES (61%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (61%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (53%); SIC2087 FLAVORING EXTRACTS & FLAVORING SYRUPS, NEC (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (51%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (71%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (53%) TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



646 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Mobile Payments Draw Nearer

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

 BODY:
It's only a matter of time before your mobile phone swallows up yet another piece of technology: your credit card.
In this not-too-distant future, rather than pay for gas or dinner with a piece of plastic that you slide through a machine, you will simply tap your phone to pay the bill. For this to become standard in the United States, a number of technological changes need to happen, and companies are already working on them. 
According to two people with knowledge of the inner workings of a coming iteration of the Apple iPhone -- although not necessarily the next one -- a chip made by Qualcomm for the phone's processor will also include near-field communication technology, known as N.F.C. This technology enables short-range wireless communications between the phone and an N.F.C reader, and can be used to make mobile payments. It is unclear which version of an iPhone this technology would be built into.
One person familiar with the new Apple feature said the phone's credit card information would be tied to information currently used on iTunes, which would make it simple for customers to set up the new mobile payment method on the iPhone.
Last year, Apple hired Benjamin Vigier, an expert in the mobile payments industry who works with N.F.C. extensively. Apple has also filed patents that demonstrate how such a system would work on the iPhone.
Apple isn't the only company trying to create a phone that can make payments. Google is also exploring adding N.F.C. payment methods to the Google Android platform, according to a Google employee who asked not to be named because company employees are not allowed to speak publicly about unannounced features and products.
Eric E. Schmidt, Google's chief executive, said at the Mobile World Congress in Spain this year that Google could work with advertisers to create a rich purchasing experience through the mobile phone using built-in N.F.C. chips.
A person familiar with new iterations of Microsoft's Windows Phone 7 platform said a partner handset manufacturer is also exploring adding this technology to the next version of a Microsoft mobile phone. This person also said the new partnership with Nokia and Microsoft could catapult this technology into the mainstream as Nokia has said in the past that it plans to add N.F.C. technology to all its new phones in 2011.
A report recently released by Forrester Research, ''2010: A Crossroads For NFC Mobile Payments,'' noted that 2010 would most likely bring a new era of these mobile payments as companies that have experimented with N.F.C. as a payment method, begin using it in the real world.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); SMARTPHONES (90%); MOBILE PAYMENTS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (88%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); NEAR FIELD COMMUNICATIONS (78%); PATENTS (73%); SHORT RANGE WIRELESS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (92%); GOOGLE INC (86%); QUALCOMM INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (86%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); SPAIN (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



647 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: American Thought Police

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Recently William Cronon, a historian who teaches at the University of Wisconsin, decided to weigh in on his state's political turmoil. He started a blog, ''Scholar as Citizen,'' devoting his first post to the role of the shadowy American Legislative Exchange Council in pushing hard-line conservative legislation at the state level. Then he published an opinion piece in The Times, suggesting that Wisconsin's Republican governor has turned his back on the state's long tradition of ''neighborliness, decency and mutual respect.''
So what was the G.O.P.'s response? A demand for copies of all e-mails sent to or from Mr. Cronon's university mail account containing any of a wide range of terms, including the word ''Republican'' and the names of a number of Republican politicians. 
If this action strikes you as no big deal, you're missing the point. The hard right -- which these days is more or less synonymous with the Republican Party -- has a modus operandi when it comes to scholars expressing views it dislikes: never mind the substance, go for the smear. And that demand for copies of e-mails is obviously motivated by no more than a hope that it will provide something, anything, that can be used to subject Mr. Cronon to the usual treatment.
The Cronon affair, then, is one more indicator of just how reflexively vindictive, how un-American, one of our two great political parties has become.
The demand for Mr. Cronon's correspondence has obvious parallels with the ongoing smear campaign against climate science and climate scientists, which has lately relied heavily on supposedly damaging quotations found in e-mail records.
Back in 2009 climate skeptics got hold of more than a thousand e-mails between researchers at the Climate Research Unit at Britain's University of East Anglia. Nothing in the correspondence suggested any kind of scientific impropriety; at most, we learned -- I know this will shock you -- that scientists are human beings, who occasionally say snide things about people they dislike.
But that didn't stop the usual suspects from proclaiming that they had uncovered ''Climategate,'' a scientific scandal that somehow invalidates the vast array of evidence for man-made climate change. And this fake scandal gives an indication of what the Wisconsin G.O.P. presumably hopes to do to Mr. Cronon.
After all, if you go through a large number of messages looking for lines that can be made to sound bad, you're bound to find a few. In fact, it's surprising how few such lines the critics managed to find in the ''Climategate'' trove: much of the smear has focused on just one e-mail, in which a researcher talks about using a ''trick'' to ''hide the decline'' in a particular series. In context, it's clear that he's talking about making an effective graphical presentation, not about suppressing evidence. But the right wants a scandal, and won't take no for an answer.
Is there any doubt that Wisconsin Republicans are hoping for a similar ''success'' against Mr. Cronon?
Now, in this case they'll probably come up dry. Mr. Cronon writes on his blog that he has been careful never to use his university e-mail for personal business, exhibiting a scrupulousness that's neither common nor expected in the academic world. (Full disclosure: I have, at times, used my university e-mail to remind my wife to feed the cats, confirm dinner plans with friends, etc.)
Beyond that, Mr. Cronon -- the president-elect of the American Historical Association -- has a secure reputation as a towering figure in his field. His magnificent ''Nature's Metropolis: Chicago and the Great West'' is the best work of economic and business history I've ever read -- and I read a lot of that kind of thing.
So we don't need to worry about Mr. Cronon -- but we should worry a lot about the wider effect of attacks like the one he's facing.
Legally, Republicans may be within their rights: Wisconsin's open records law provides public access to e-mails of government employees, although the law was clearly intended to apply to state officials, not university professors. But there's a clear chilling effect when scholars know that they may face witch hunts whenever they say things the G.O.P. doesn't like.
Someone like Mr. Cronon can stand up to the pressure. But less eminent and established researchers won't just become reluctant to act as concerned citizens, weighing in on current debates; they'll be deterred from even doing research on topics that might get them in trouble.
What's at stake here, in other words, is whether we're going to have an open national discourse in which scholars feel free to go wherever the evidence takes them, and to contribute to public understanding. Republicans, in Wisconsin and elsewhere, are trying to shut that kind of discourse down. It's up to the rest of us to see that they don't succeed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); HISTORY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); POLITICS (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%); AMERICAN LEGISLATIVE EXCHANGE COUNCIL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



648 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: N.Y.U. to Establish a Degree-Granting Campus in Shanghai

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
New York University, which has long been expanding beyond its home base at Greenwich Village's Washington Square to neighborhoods like the East Village, is turning its eyes much farther eastward -- announcing on Sunday that it will establish a degree-granting liberal arts campus in Shanghai. 
The university set up a degree-granting campus in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, in September and it has long sponsored a dozen smaller programs in other countries. But the campus in China will give it a powerful presence in the world's second largest economy, and in a country that sends more students to study in the United States than any other.
In recent years, American universities have been setting up outposts in nations where the opportunities for higher education are far narrower or of lesser caliber than in the United States, becoming, in effect, global universities. Such programs help these institutions lure professorial and research talent and enlist tuition-paying students. They also allow American students interested in, say, Middle-Eastern or Chinese culture to study and conduct research in the relevant lands.
Allan Goodman, president of the Institute of International Education, a nonprofit organization, said that while about 80 American universities have branch campuses, it is rare for research universities like N.Y.U. to have degree-granting branches. Temple has had one in Japan for 40 years, and Yale is planning one in Singapore, he said.
In an interview by telephone from Shanghai, where he was scheduled to sign an agreement on Monday with Chinese officials, John E. Sexton, N.Y.U.'s president, compared the more cosmopolitan horizons of today's students and professors to the Italian Renaissance, when talented artists moved from their homes to cities like Florence, Milan and Venice to pursue their work.
Now the migration is global, he added.
''The idea,'' Mr. Sexton said, ''is that in a century where more and more people as well as ideas are operating beyond national boundaries, the professoriate and the talent class will be highly mobile,'' he said.
N.Y.U. Shanghai will start teaching its first cadre of roughly 150 undergraduates in September 2013 on a campus being built by China in the Pudong district of Shanghai. Eventually, N.Y.U. -- which currently offers the chance to spend a semester or year abroad in Shanghai and 10 other cities -- foresees an enrollment of 3,000.
Classes will be conducted in English and ''and in accord with the principles of academic freedom,'' an N.Y.U. statement said.
''We're comfortable that we will be able to offer an N.Y.U. education in Shanghai the way we offer it in Abu Dhabi or New York City,'' Mr. Sexton said, when asked whether China might exercise the kind of censorship foreign to American colleges.
Mr. Sexton said representatives of China had invited N.Y.U. to set up the Shanghai branch. Forty to 50 percent of the students will come from China.
Most of the professors would be regular N.Y.U. faculty members who volunteer or agree to spend a few semesters abroad. The curriculum has not yet been developed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%) EAST CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (96%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



649 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Students, Shortchanged

 BODY:
The New Jersey Legislature acted in the best interest of the state's most vulnerable children in 2008 when it adopted a school financing formula that guaranteed districts enough money to give needy and disabled students a chance at a decent education. The state declared that it had found a way to quantify and subsidize the costs of the extra services -- tutoring, counseling and after-school programs -- that high-risk students needed to succeed at school. The plan won court approval. 
The state has changed its tune under Gov. Chris Christie. Mr. Christie first vetoed a bill that would have raised revenue by taxing some of the state's richest citizens. He used the economy as an excuse to savage the school budget, shortchanging the school financing formula by $1.6 billion, a cut of nearly 20 percent.
Not surprisingly, crucial services for high-risk students began to disappear. Not surprisingly, lawyers representing the state's poorest districts returned to court. Last week, New Jersey Superior Court Judge Peter Doyne found that the budget cuts had deprived the high-risk students of important programs and pushed them further away from success in the classroom.
According to the ruling, the state tried to allocate the cuts in a way that did less harm to the poor, but it clearly failed to do so. As the court record shows, the cuts were disproportionately larger -- in terms of per-pupil reductions -- for those poorer districts that have anemic local tax bases and that depend most heavily on state aid.
For example, the Clifton City school district, where more than 42 percent of students are high-risk, received a staggering financing reduction of about 38 percent. The Clifton superintendant testified that the system had lost teaching staff, increased class size and cut academic support for struggling students, putting them at even greater disadvantage in meeting state standards than they were at the outset.
Judge Doyne rightly refused to buy the state's claim that there was little or no relationship between financing and student achievement. Instead, he ruled that the current financing levels do not meeting the constitutional standard that has been reaffirmed several times by state courts over the last several decades. The case now returns to New Jersey's Supreme Court, which has repeatedly ruled that the state has a clear responsibility to adequately finance its schools -- and should do so again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); VETO (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); JUDGES (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (73%); DISABLED PERSONS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); APPROVALS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



650 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Reality TV, Shaking Off Recession, Takes Entrepreneurial Turn

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
If reality television could be considered an economic indicator, then perhaps the recovery is finally under way. Slowly.
Two networks are betting on shows based on entrepreneurs competing for seed money for their business ideas. NBC's ''America's Next Great Restaurant'' features aspiring restaurateurs trying to impress a panel of judges to win financing for a new chain. And ABC has reintroduced ''Shark Tank,'' in which entrepreneurs try to get backing from a panel of venture capitalists who bet with their own money -- in exchange for a piece of the action.
''We think this area is a gold mine -- where business hits reality television,'' said Paul Telegdy, the executive in charge of reality programming for NBC. ''Wealth creation and the concept of capitalism are things that are inherently top-of-mind in America.'' 
Three years ago, as the economy crashed, reality television producers rushed out shows about pawnshops and scavenging like A&E's ''Pawn Stars'' and ''Storage Wars'' -- a reflection of the desperate mood across the country. Are viewers now ready for a more optimistic view?
So far the results are not worthy of a buy order. ''Shark Tank'' showed improvement over its first year's ratings in its return last week, but still attracted less than a hit-level audience at 6.1 million viewers. NBC's restaurant show, which has averaged only about 4.3 million viewers, is being buffeted by other reality competition on Sunday (especially ''The Amazing Race'' on CBS and another, more heart-tugging money-oriented show on ABC, ''Secret Millionaire''), but it showed an unexpected sign of life when NBC ran a repeat on Tuesday night.
Mark Burnett, the most successful reality producer in television, with ''Survivor'' and another business show, ''The Apprentice,'' on his resume, jumped at the chance to produce ''Shark Tank'' both because he was familiar with the show from British television (where it was called ''Dragon's Den'') and because of his personal entrepreneurial experience.
''I emigrated here from England and started out selling T-shirts on the beach,'' Mr. Burnett said. ''I can really identify with these entrepreneurs.'' He said he had also produced a pilot for VH1 about ''business turnarounds.''
Last year, ''Shark Tank'' was a marginal success on Sunday night. This year, it is playing regularly on Friday nights and has added some celebrity juice to its panel of venture capitalists, in the form of the comedian Jeff Foxworthy and the prominent businessman -- and sports franchise owner -- Mark Cuban.
Mr. Cuban certainly believes in the concept of putting up his own money for entrepreneurial ideas. He said in a telephone interview, ''I get amped up about a lot of things, as people know, but this was exciting.'' One of the aspiring entrepreneurs managed to get the bidding up to $4 million, a sum that Mr. Burnett said was probably ''the biggest amount ever available in a nonfiction TV show.''
''Dragon's Den'' began in Japan, and the format is owned by Sony. Steve Mosko, the president of Sony Pictures Television, said the format for ''Dragon's Den'' had been sold in 38 countries, and had become a hit in many. (The most recent editions are in Poland and Saudi Arabia.) Mr. Burnett changed the title thinking that, in the United States, dragons would not conjure the image of tough venture capitalists as well as sharks would. ''Blood in the water and all that,'' Mr. Burnett said.
Mr. Mosko said it should be ''the perfect format'' for American audiences, given the whole ''American dream thing.'' From a business point of view it has another advantage, as one former reality-show producer noted: it's cheap to make.
At a production cost of only about $750,000 for an hour (in part because the millions in commitments for the business ventures come from the investment sharks, not the network) the show is such a bargain it could stay on the air even with less-than-stellar ratings, said the executive, who asked not to be identified in order to preserve relationships with the network.
''America's Next Great Restaurant'' doesn't have the advantage of extremely low cost. NBC formed a partnership with Steve Ells, the founder of the Chipotle Mexican Grill chain, to create the show, which challenges chefs to endure tests to prove they are worthy of serious investment in their restaurant ideas.
The network and Mr. Ells have committed to creating a new restaurant chain with the winner of the contest and have already started building three restaurants in what Mr. Telegdy called ''prime locations'' in New York, Los Angeles and Minneapolis.
Mr. Telegdy, who is British, hatched the restaurant idea partly because he too watched ''Dragon's Den'' on the BBC. He said the format seemed promising, but he wondered about the breadth of the appeal of some of the winning ideas, like an ankle bracelet that sends distress signals for an overboard yachter.
''Whatever 21st century capitalism is in a kind of post-bank-apocalypse, post-bailout world, America can't forget it is really good at innovating and starting businesses,'' Mr. Telegdy said.
Mr. Burnett said all the business people being portrayed on reality shows might help counter the persistent image on fictional television of the executive as a villain, though Mr. Cuban didn't entirely agree.
The regular folks ''chasing the dream'' are the people worth watching, Mr. Cuban said. ''Everybody has that idea: this could be it. That's what people will empathize with and rally around.''
''Big business people really are villains,'' he added. ''They're idiots. They nearly drove this country into a depression.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steve Ells, left, the founder of Chipotle Mexican Grill, helped create a show for NBC that features aspiring restaurateurs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HASTON/NBC) (B1)
 Contestants on ''Shark Tank'' compete for seed money. Mark Cuban, left, is on the show's panel of venture capitalists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG SJODIN/ABC) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (93%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (67%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: JEFF FOXWORTHY (58%); MARK CUBAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (52%)

TITLE: Shark Tank (TV Program); America's Next Great Restaurant (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



651 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: Philadelphia School Battles Students' Bad Eating Habits, On Campus and Off

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MOSS

 BODY:
PHILADELPHIA -- Tatyana Gray bolted from her house and headed toward her elementary school. But when she reached the corner store where she usually gets her morning snack of chips or a sweet drink, she encountered a protective phalanx of parents with bright-colored safety vests and walkie-talkies.
The scourge the parents were combating was neither the drugs nor the violence that plagues this North Philadelphia neighborhood. It was bad eating habits.
''Candy!'' said one of the parents, McKinley Harris, peering into a small bag one child carried out of the store. ''That's not food.'' 
The parents standing guard outside the Oxford Food Shop are foot soldiers in a national battle over the diets of children that has taken on new fervor. With 20 percent of the nation's children obese, the United States Department of Agriculture has proposed new standards for federally subsidized school meals that call for more balanced meals and, for the first time, a limit on calories. The current standard specifies only a minimum calorie count, which some schools meet by adding sweet foods.
Earlier this year, when Michelle Obama, as part of her campaign against childhood obesity, announced that Wal-Mart would reduce salt and sugar in its packaged foods, she said, ''We're beginning to see the ripple effects on the choices folks are making about how they feed their kids.''
But this effort is up against an array of powerful forces, from economics to biology, all of which are playing out in Philadelphia, where the obesity rate is among the nation's highest. At the intersection of North 28th and West Oxford Streets, the Oxford Food Shop and the William D. Kelley School are in a tug of war over the cravings of kids.
Amelia Brown, the principal of the kindergarten through eighth grade school, said that deplorable diets caused headaches and stomachaches that undermine academic achievement, and that older students showed a steady progression of flab. So inside the school, the nutrition bug is rampant.
The gym teacher, Beverly Griffin, teaches healthy eating using a toy model of the federal food pyramid and rewritten children's songs. ''And on his farm he had some carrots,'' Tatyana, a first grader, belted out one recent morning, skipping around the gym with her classmates.
Like schools throughout the nation, Kelley has expelled soda and sweet snacks. Instead of high-calorie fruit juices, the school nurse, Wendy Fine, said, ''I push water.''
The Agriculture Department wants to change the content of federally subsidized school meals -- 33 million lunches and 9 million breakfasts a day -- by the fall of 2012. Beyond the calorie cap, the new standards would emphasize whole grains, vegetables and fruits and set tighter limits on sodium and fats.
''This will mean a huge shift in school meals,'' said Margo G. Wootan, the director of nutrition policy at the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer advocacy group.
Fernando Gallard, a spokesman for the Philadelphia School District, said schools were meeting the new federal meal proposals by using more dark green and orange vegetables, as well as fruits, whole grains and legumes.
The food industry is defending products by focusing on their mineral and vitamin content. The National Potato Council, for example, is warning against cutting starch, saying children need potatoes' potassium and fiber.
Some companies are adjusting their recipes, although hardly drastically. After Philadelphia schools stopped buying the sugary products of the local bakery icon Tastykake, the company created a 190-calorie muffin, reducing sugar enough to move it below flour on the list of ingredients. The new formulation, which uses whole grains, got Tastykake muffins back on the school breakfast menu and classified as bread. ''It is sweet,'' said Autumn R. Bayles, a company senior vice president. ''Sugar is just not the first ingredient.''
To match the efforts inside the school, one of Ms. Brown's first acts as principal last August was to ask owners of nearby corner stores to stop selling to students in the morning.
There was a reason for this. While research suggests that as little as an extra 200 calories a day can make an adult overweight, a recent study led by Gary D. Foster, the director of the Center for Obesity Research and Education at Temple University, found that children were getting 360 calories a day from chips, candy and sugary drinks -- all for an average of $1.06.
Gladys Tejada, who owns the Oxford shop, said, ''It's a good thing, what they're trying to do, but I can't control who comes in.''
Nor can she control what they buy. ''They like it sweet,'' she said. ''They like it cheap.''
Since 2001, a Philadelphia organization called Food Trust has worked to get corner stores to offer healthier foods, including fresh fruit, vegetables and water, as well as products with reduced sugar, salt and fat. But just 507 of the city's estimated 2,500 corner stores have signed on.
Jetro Cash and Carry, which supplies many corner stores, joined the effort. But Jack Sagen, a Jetro sales and marketing director, said he recently lost $500 buying several dozen cases of 15-cent bags of sliced apples that perished before they could catch on with the stores. Walking through his warehouse, he stopped at a display of stuffed tortilla snacks. ''These will kill you,'' Mr. Sagen said. ''They are one of our best sellers.''
Scientists have demonstrated the power of sugar since at least 1974, when a Brooklyn College professor, Anthony Sclafani, found that lab rats were so drawn to Froot Loops that they would suppress their natural fear to eat in the exposed areas of their cages. Researchers using brain imagining technology have since found that foods high in sugar or fat activate the same reward system as cocaine and other drugs, and can also set off the release of the neural chemical dopamine, which can cause the brain to override the biological brakes that prevent overeating.
The challenge of reducing calories for children becomes clear at the Monell Chemical Senses Center, an institute in Philadelphia that does research for both government and industry, which is testing the sweet and salty preferences of children, using several hundred subjects, including Tatyana, the Kelley first grader.
Monell researchers demonstrated the so-called bliss point -- the level of sweetness that makes products most desirable -- by having Tatyana taste several puddings with differing levels of sweetness. She settled on one that was 24 percent sucrose, twice the sweetness adults typically like.
''Childhood teaches us what to eat, how to eat, when to eat and what food should taste like,'' said Julie Mennella, the scientist conducting the research. ''Children don't have to learn to like sweet. But what they will be learning is what food should taste sweet.''
Breakfast is a particular battleground.
Tatyana's mother keeps a basket of fruit on the dining table, but her daughter's favorite cereal is Cinnamon Toast Crunch, whose 10 grams of sugar per serving is 10 times as much as that of Cheerios.
And even after eating cereal, Tatyana, like many Kelley students, stops for a snack on the way to the school.
Frustrated that her pressure on stores had not worked, Ms. Brown called on parents and Operation Town Watch Integrated Services, which typically helps neighborhoods fight crime and drugs.
''I need you to go to those stores and say, 'Look, can you not sell to our kids between 8:15 and 8:30?' ''Ms. Brown said, kicking off the effort in January. '' 'We don't want them to eat sugary items. There is a breakfast program right here. And if you don't do this, we're going to have to boycott for a while.' ''
Mr. Harris, a Navy veteran with six children in the school, and three other parents took the first corner store watch, with mixed results. Tatyana continued past the store without stopping, but others bought the usual fare.
''Ha, ha, ha,'' one young girl said, scoffing at Mr. Harris.
''I bought everything!'' another bragged.
But after several weeks of parent intervention, Ms. Brown said more children were skipping the corner stores, showing progress against the pull of sweet snacks.
''It does what they need it to do for that moment,'' she said of the snacks. ''It hits them in the stomach. They feel full. It's cheap and fast.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: First graders at the William D. Kelley School in Philadelphia learn about nutrition in gym class. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); NUTRITION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (89%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); OBESITY (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (88%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); DIETING (76%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); NURSES & NURSING (50%); MUSIC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (56%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



652 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Senior Tour Tightens Its Focus on the Big Three

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

 BODY:
Last May, the Hall of Fame tennis player Jim Courier and his business partner Jon Venison left Boston after staging their latest senior event with the conviction that they needed to revitalize their five-year-old tour, the Champions Series, in a difficult economy.
''I think we were getting lost in the shuffle a little bit with our tournaments, where we'd have one night that was a focal point and a couple of other good sessions and a few that wouldn't rate at all,'' Courier said. ''We wanted just to get rid of the fat and get down to the essence of what people want and what works best for the players.'' 
What resulted, after a trip to Las Vegas to recruit Andre Agassi, is a compact, one-month circuit with the emphasis heavily on the three most successful and visible American men's players of the last 30 years: Pete Sampras, John McEnroe and Agassi, who has played team tennis, exhibitions and charity events since retiring in 2006 but has played only one event on a formal senior tour.
The management company IMG also runs a global professional senior circuit, the ATP Champions Tour, with 12 multiday events scheduled this year in a season that runs from February to December.
But the revamped Champions Series will be the first to bring the longtime rivals Sampras and Agassi together regularly as seniors. Agassi is now a part owner of the tour, which will start shortly after the United States Open and run from Sept. 22 to Oct. 22.
Details are to be announced this week, but according to Courier, the series will have 12 one-night indoor events in, for now, American cities. Those will include -- in the first year -- Los Angeles, Chicago and Philadelphia. There will be a $1 million bonus pool, with $500,000 for the series winner.
''I didn't need a lot of convincing at all,'' Agassi, who is a close friend of Courier's, said by telephone from Las Vegas. ''It just makes too much sense to take these three-day events and turn them into one-night experiences for the fans and take more burden off the players and give more of a blast of entertainment to those that have gotten us to this point in our lives.''
Each event will feature only four players with two one-set semifinals and then a final decided by an eight-game pro set. The idea is to crank up the star power and ensure that fans get to see the players they paid to see while keeping scheduling demands minimal and physical demands manageable.
Agassi said he had had recurring nerve problems in his back since retiring and had a major episode last fall because of radiating pain.
''I have to listen to my body these days,'' Agassi said. ''For a lot of years, I told my body what to do, and now it's paying me back.''
McEnroe remains remarkably fit at 52 and has long been one of the most active senior players. He estimates that he played more than 40 matches last year, whereas Sampras said he was happy playing ''about a dozen.'' But McEnroe is more than a decade older than Sampras, 39, and Agassi and Courier, who are both 40.
''I think my best chance, obviously, if I was able to beat a guy like Pete or Andre, would be in a one-set format,'' McEnroe said by telephone from the Caribbean island of St. Barthelemy.
There appears to be a significant appetite for such nostalgia. On Feb. 28, more than 17,000 attended a one-night exhibition at Madison Square Garden in which Sampras beat Agassi and McEnroe faced Ivan Lendl but had to retire with a sprained ankle.
''To be honest, I was a little surprised there were 17,000 people, and that made it a little more stressful, because we wanted to play well and make sure the fans got their money's worth,'' Sampras said by telephone from Los Angeles. ''You kind of live your life with your wife and your kids, and you sort of forget who you were a little bit.''
Agassi said he viewed the Champions Series largely as an opportunity to re-engage with his public but recognized that others might be more focused on winning.
''I thought this was going to be a real family entertainment tour, and then they told me John was participating, so I realized maybe it's not,'' Agassi said with a laugh.
At least two of the men whom Venison calls ''the big three'' (Sampras, Agassi and McEnroe) are contracted to play each night. Courier, the current United States Davis Cup captain, who was ranked No. 1 before Sampras and Agassi, plans to play regularly, too, and there will be a limited number of slots for other former champions, most likely Michael Chang, Bjorn Borg, Mats Wilander, Patrick Rafter and Ivan Lendl.
The legitimate concern is that this tour will be dominated by Sampras, who has trained with Roger Federer recently and appeared to be in fine form in New York, where Agassi was clearly constrained physically.
''My goal is not to embarrass anyone out there,'' Sampras said. ''I want to have it be fun for all the players and the fans, but at the same time, people want to come see me play. They want to see me serve 130 and serve and volley, and it's hard for me to play halfway. So it's something we all figure out.''
Last year, Sampras and Agassi had an edgy exchange in Indian Wells, Calif., at a charity match for Haiti after Agassi mocked Sampras for being stingy, an accusation Agassi had already leveled in his autobiography. But they played without incident in New York.
''We had some misunderstandings, whatever you want to call it, the Hit for Haiti thing, people really grabbed onto,'' Sampras said. ''We're fine. We've always communicated pretty well and looking forward, where our relationship is, is fine. We're not the best of friends, and we're not enemies.
''I have a lot of respect for Andre and what he did for my career and him as a person. As different as we are, we got along quite well, and we actually do have quite a lot in common, married with two kids and slowing down our lives. I'm looking forward to playing Andre in these matches, and hopefully, we both feel good about it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pete Sampras, left, and Andre Agassi watching highlights of their careers during an exhibition last month in Madison Square Garden. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CHARITIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



653 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 871 words

PERSON: Paul Baran 

HEADLINE: Paul Baran, Internet Pioneer, Dies at 84

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER

 BODY:
Paul Baran, an engineer who helped create the technical underpinnings for the Arpanet, the government-sponsored precursor to today's Internet, died Saturday night at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 84.
The cause was complications from lung cancer, said his son, David.
In the early 1960s, while working at the RAND Corporation in Santa Monica, Calif., Mr. Baran outlined the fundamentals for packaging data into discrete bundles, which he called ''message blocks.'' The bundles are then sent on various paths around a network and reassembled at their destination. Such a plan is known as ''packet switching.'' 
Mr. Baran's idea was to build a distributed communications network, less vulnerable to attack or disruption than conventional networks. In a series of technical papers published in the 1960s he suggested that networks be designed with redundant routes so that if a particular path failed or was destroyed, messages could still be delivered through another.
Mr. Baran's invention was so far ahead of its time that in the mid-1960s, when he approached AT&T with the idea to build his proposed network, the company insisted it would not work and refused.
''Paul wasn't afraid to go in directions counter to what everyone else thought was the right or only thing to do,'' said Vinton Cerf, a vice president at Google who was a colleague and longtime friend of Mr. Baran's. ''AT&T repeatedly said his idea wouldn't work, and wouldn't participate in the Arpanet project,'' he said.
In 1969, the Defense Department's Advanced Research Projects Agency built the Arpanet, a network that used Mr. Baran's ideas, and those of others. The Arpanet was eventually replaced by the Internet, and packet switching still lies at the heart of the network's internal workings.
Paul Baran was born on April 29, 1926, in Grodno, Poland. His parents moved to the United States in 1928, and Mr. Baran grew up in Philadelphia. His father was a grocer, and as a boy, Paul delivered orders to customers in a small red wagon.
He attended the Drexel Institute of Technology, which later became Drexel University, where he earned a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering in 1949. He took his first job at the Eckert-Mauchly Computer Corporation in Philadelphia, testing parts of radio tubes for an early commercial computer, the Univac. In 1955, he married Evelyn Murphy, and they moved to Los Angeles, where Mr. Baran took a job at Hughes Aircraft working on radar data processing systems. He enrolled in night classes at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Mr. Baran received a master's degree in engineering from U.C.L.A. in 1959. Gerald Estrin, who was Mr. Baran's adviser, said Mr. Baran was the first student he ever had who actually went to the Patent Office in Washington to investigate whether his master's work, on character recognition, was patentable.
''From that day on, my expectations of him changed,'' Dr. Estrin said. ''He wasn't just a serious student, but a young man who was looking to have an effect on the world.''
In 1959, Mr. Baran left Hughes to join RAND's computer science department. He quickly developed an interest in the survivability of communications systems in the event of a nuclear attack, and spent the next several years at RAND working on a series of 13 papers -- two of them classified -- under contract to the Air Force, titled, ''On Distributed Communications.''
About the same time that Mr. Baran had his idea, similar plans for creating such networks were percolating in the computing community. Donald Davies of the British National Physical Laboratory, working a continent away, had a similar idea for dividing digital messages into chunks he called packets.
''In the golden era of the early 1960s, these ideas were in the air,'' said Leonard Kleinrock, a computer scientist at U.C.L.A. who was working on similar networking systems in the 1960s.
Mr. Baran left RAND in 1968 to co-found the Institute for the Future, a nonprofit research group specializing in long-range forecasting.
Mr. Baran was also an entrepreneur. He started seven companies, five of which eventually went public.
In recent years, the origins of the Internet have been subject to claims and counterclaims of precedence, and Mr. Baran was an outspoken proponent of distributing credit widely.
''The Internet is really the work of a thousand people,'' he said in an interview in 2001.
''The process of technological developments is like building a cathedral,'' he said in an interview in 1990. ''Over the course of several hundred years, new people come along and each lays down a block on top of the old foundations, each saying, 'I built a cathedral.'
''Next month another block is placed atop the previous one. Then comes along an historian who asks, 'Well, who built the cathedral?' Peter added some stones here, and Paul added a few more. If you are not careful you can con yourself into believing that you did the most important part. But the reality is that each contribution has to follow onto previous work. Everything is tied to everything else.''
Mr. Baran's wife, Evelyn, died in 2007. In addition to his son, David, of Atherton, Calif., he is survived by three grandchildren; and his companion of recent years, Ruth Rothman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The engineer Paul Baran. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ENGINEERING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (73%); CANCER (72%); LUNG CANCER (57%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%); RAND CORP (72%); DIRECTV (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); DTV (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



654 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include personal income and spending for February (Monday); the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price index (Tuesday); initial jobless claims (Thursday); and the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting earnings will include Jos. A. Bank Clothiers, KB Home and Rite Aid (Monday); Lennar and Sealy (Tuesday); Family Dollar (Wednesday); and Carmax and Krispy Kreme (Thursday).
IN WASHINGTON On Wednesday, the Health and Human Services secretary, Kathleen Sebelius, left, will testify before a Senate Appropriations subcommittee about the president's budget proposal, the Senate Finance Committee will hold a hearing on tax incentives, and the House Ways and Means Committee will hold a hearing on policies to create jobs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); APPROPRIATIONS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (84%); PUBLIC FINANCE (83%); JOB CREATION (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (71%); TAX LAW (66%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (55%); TAX INCENTIVES (51%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (51%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); KB HOME CORP (57%); CARMAX INC (57%); JOS A BANK CLOTHIERS INC (57%)

TICKER: KBH (NYSE) (57%); KMX (NYSE) (57%); JOSB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%); NAICS441120 USED CAR DEALERS (57%); SIC5521 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (USED ONLY) (57%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (57%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (57%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



655 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: The New Grave Robbers

BYLINE: By RAY D. MADOFF. 
Ray D. Madoff, a professor at Boston College Law School, is the author of ''Immortality and the Law: The Rising Power of the American Dead.''

 BODY:
Newton, Mass.
CAN a wild wig and a bushy mustache be packaged and called an Albert Einstein costume? According to Hebrew University of Jerusalem and its American marketing agent, the answer is no -- at least not without permission. The university says that when it inherited Einstein's estate, the bequest included ownership of Einstein's very identity, giving it exclusive legal control over who could use Einstein's name and image, and at what cost.
Einstein is not the only example. While we might think of people like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., George Patton, Rosa Parks, Frank Lloyd Wright and Babe Ruth as part of our cultural heritage, available for all to use, the identities of each of them, and thousands more, are claimed as private property, usable only with permission and for a fee. 
This phenomenon is fairly recent -- and it's getting out of control. For most of this country's history, a person's identity was not something that could be owned. While the unauthorized use of someone's name or image was sometimes barred as an invasion of privacy, the right belonged to that person alone and could not be assigned to others. It was not until 1953, in a case involving baseball players licensing their images for use on baseball cards, that American law first constructed identity as a property interest that could be sold or licensed. This interest became known as the right of publicity.
Today the right of publicity clearly allows people to control the commercial use of their names and images during their lives. What happens after death is much murkier.
Throughout much of the world, the right of publicity ends at death, after which a person's identity becomes generally available for public use. In the United States, however, this issue is governed by state laws, which have taken a remarkably varied approach. In New York, the right of publicity terminates at death; other states provide that the right of publicity survives death for limited terms. But in Tennessee (whose laws govern the use of Elvis Presley's image, since he died there), Washington (home of a company that purports to own Jimi Hendrix's right of publicity) and Indiana (where CMG Worldwide, which manages the identities of hundreds of dead people, is based), control over the identities of the dead has been secured for terms ranging from 100 years to, potentially, eternity.
In a case involving Marilyn Monroe, the California Legislature even created a retroactive right of publicity, establishing new private property interests in the identities of the long dead. (It didn't work, because a court later found that Monroe was a resident of New York when she died. Her identity remains in the public domain.) This so-called descendible right of publicity has created a new kind of business: corporations that acquire and market dead people. So Rosa Parks sells Chevy trucks and Albert Einstein peddles everything from baby products to Apple computers. (And who knows how Elizabeth Taylor might be put to work now that she has gone to the other side?)
But say you wanted to write a play about a chance meeting between these two historic figures. Could you? While the play itself may be protected by the First Amendment, that doesn't mean that the companies that manage Parks and Einstein might not attempt to assert control. Hebrew University has aggressively defended Einstein's image, even blocking its use on a book called ''Everything's Relative.'' And don't expect to sell programs, posters, T-shirts or the other paraphernalia that might support your play without getting approval and paying whatever fee the owners of Parks's and Einstein's rights of publicity demand.
Contrary to what the owners of these identities claim, a right of publicity that continues after death does little to protect the reputations of the deceased. American law, unlike that in much of Europe, explicitly and uniformly provides that reputational protections -- including libel and slander and the right of privacy -- all end at death. The expansion of the right of publicity does nothing to change this.
Instead, it has afforded riches to the heirs of the dead and the companies that represent them. Einstein's estate has generated $76 million in the last five years. But the dead themselves -- particularly those who would have preferred to avoid being marketed as a commodity -- may not be so well served.
While people can provide for the postmortem exploitation of their identities, there is no legal mechanism by which they can prevent it. It is a basic tenet of wills law that a person cannot order the destruction of a valuable property interest. Therefore, if Parks had written in her will that she did not want her identity to be marketed, there is a good chance that a court would not enforce those wishes.
The economic value of a dead celebrity's image imposes another cost as well. Namely, rights of publicity, like all other property interests, are subject to estate taxes at their highest market value. This means that even if heirs choose not to market a person's identity (perhaps to protect their loved one's dignity), they nonetheless must pay taxes on the right. In some cases, that could compel heirs to market their loved ones' identity in order to pay the taxes associated with it. Paradoxically, the values would likely be highest for those individuals who most coveted their privacy while alive (think J. D. Salinger).
The patchwork approach of state laws has resulted in uncertainty regarding what is, and isn't, privately owned under the right of publicity. There has been considerable litigation in recent years over such questions as these: What happens when the right of publicity bumps up against First Amendment rights? How do we determine which state's law applies to a particular decedent? And how far can states go in creating and controlling these rights? (Just last month, Washington State's right of publicity was found by a federal court to be unconstitutionally broad.) Yet, because these are issues of state law, the litigation has not brought clarity on a national level.
Congress should step in and enact a federal right of publicity. In doing so, it should establish clear First Amendment protections and set forth a relatively short term for the right of publicity to survive death (perhaps 10 years). Most important, the law should provide a mechanism that allows people to opt out of marketing their identities after death. After all, sometimes the dead should be allowed to simply rest in peace.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY KELLY BLAIR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WILLS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (70%); HISTORY (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); BASEBALL (65%)

COMPANY: CMG WORLDWIDE INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



656 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Opportunities and Perils for Obama In Military Action in Libya

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
Politicians define themselves by choosing enemies, and exemplars. Suddenly, President Obama's choices on Libya are reshaping his profile in unpredictable ways as he heads into the 2012 election season.
The president and his advisers have already highlighted the central factors that influenced Mr. Obama's decision to act militarily, a process he plans to explain more fully to the nation at 7:30 p.m. Monday.
In Muammar el-Qaddafi, Mr. Obama saw an autocrat on the verge of committing mass murder. 
In Bill Clinton, he saw a president who chose not to stop such atrocities and later regretted it.
In George W. Bush, he saw a go-it-alone style of intervention ill suited to the transformative forces now sweeping across the Middle East.
Those judgments produced the diplomatically chaotic, militarily complicated and strategically ambiguous Libyan action by the United States and an array of allies. Mr. Obama calls it not an act of war but rather a quickly arranged and temporary humanitarian response representing ''how the international community should work.''
Yet his choices face withering questions from friends and foes alike. A rapid departure by Colonel Qaddafi and American forces would quiet them; an extended commitment would undercut his oft-repeated focus on economic revival at home.
''If Jeffersonian Democrats take over in Libya, he's a hero,'' said Robert Borosage, who directs the liberal Campaign for America's Future. ''If he gets stuck in an ongoing civil war, then it could be enormously costly to the country, and to him politically.''
At minimum, Mr. Obama has introduced a new measure of his performance that almost no one would have expected when he defined his 2008 candidacy, in part, by his opposition to the Iraq war.
Action and Reaction
Presidential aspirants, in what they offer, and voters, in whom they support, typically react to the immediate past.
After the scandals of Richard M. Nixon, Jimmy Carter promised virtue. After Mr. Carter gained a reputation for small-bore fecklessness, Ronald Reagan pledged robust leadership that did not sweat the details. After George H. W. Bush won the Persian Gulf war, Bill Clinton vowed to focus on an ailing economy.
And after the younger Mr. Bush embraced his role as ''war president,'' Mr. Obama stood out among his major challengers as an opponent of the Iraq war since 2002, even before it started.
Mr. Obama said then that he opposed ''dumb'' wars, not all of them. By increasing forces in Afghanistan, President Obama fulfilled a pledge to reinvigorate a mission he argued Mr. Bush had neglected.
The Libya intervention is different. Mr. Obama initiated it, applying two lessons drawn from his predecessors.
One is the ''responsibility to protect'' innocents from slaughter, as Mr. Clinton failed to do in the 1994 Rwandan genocide. Mr. Obama judged Colonel Qaddafi's vow to show Libyan rebels ''no mercy'' such a case.
The second is the need for greater international coordination than Mr. Bush relied upon. Mr. Obama did not commit American forces until NATO allies, the Arab League and the United Nations backed the idea - and only for the stated purpose of protecting civilians, not to satisfy his separate call for Colonel Qaddafi's ouster.
The result: a unique set of political risks and rewards all Mr. Obama's own.
Great, if It Works
Bruce W. Jentleson, a Duke University professor, Clinton administration veteran and part-time adviser to Mr. Obama's State Department, called the intervention crucial to the president's foreign policy and overall political standing.
''If this succeeds,'' he said, ''he will have demonstrated he's a president who can make multilateralism work, and use American power in ways that are effective for a 21st-century world.''
Yet Mr. Obama faces skeptics across the political spectrum.
''It should not be assumed that a massacre or genocide was about to happen,'' asserted Richard Haass, a veteran of both Bush administrations who is now president of the Council on Foreign Relations. Colonel Qaddafi, he said, may have been seeking merely to intimidate potential foes. It also is not clear, Mr. Haass added, that Libyan rebels are more humane, democratic or friendly to American interests.
Among Democrats, some liberals support using force for humanitarian purposes. But as Mr. Obama prepares his 2012 campaign, Mr. Borosage predicted ''greater and greater restiveness'' over a new military commitment amid persistent economic distress.
A Gallup survey last week showed only about half of Americans backed the intervention, about the same proportion as backed the 1999 NATO airstrikes in Kosovo that Mr. Clinton authorized for humanitarian reasons. That finding underscored the political burden Mr. Obama has taken on.
''Approval will almost invariably go down from here,'' said Scott Althaus, an expert on war and public opinion at the University of Illinois. ''There's little historical evidence that support can be sustained at even this modest level for very long.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates were on ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); LIBERALISM (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); DESERT STORM (72%); CIVIL WAR (72%); GENOCIDE (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (53%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (59%); JIMMY CARTER (59%); GEORGE H W BUSH (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); RWANDA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



657 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'HOW TO SUCCEED IN BUSINESS WITHOUT REALLY TRYING'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Wizard of Corporate Climbing

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
Got a minute to listen to a pitch for a new reality-television series? It's a guaranteed winner. You know ''Dancing With the Stars''? Well, imagine taking it one step further.
Instead of teaching some unlikely, nondancing celebrities to do the cha-cha, you train them to star in a big Broadway musical, with fancy sets and chorus lines. It could be called ''Singing, Dancing and Acting With the Stars -- on Broadway (With Fancy Sets and Chorus Lines).''
O.K., maybe the title needs work. But if you want to see a prototype for an entry in this series, take a look at the new production of ''How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying,'' which opened on Sunday night at the Al Hirschfeld Theater. Its leading man is Daniel Radcliffe, the little wizard that could from the Harry Potter movies; and while Mr. Radcliffe is clearly not to the musical manner born, I would give him, oh, a 6 out of 10. 
There's little doubt that audiences will feel like rooting for Mr. Radcliffe in Rob Ashford's charm-free revival of Frank Loesser's 1961 musical about corporate ladder climbing. This 21-year-old British actor, who made a creditable Broadway debut as the psycho stable boy in ''Equus'' in 2008, conscientiously hits his choreographic marks, speaks his lines quickly and distinctly (with a convincing American accent) and often sings on key.
You can almost hear an unseen coach's voice whispering to Mr. Radcliffe, telling him when to do what. And because you so feel the effort and eagerness with which Mr. Radcliffe responds to that voice, you truly want him to succeed, just as you hope a favorite athlete or hip-hop artist will avoid elimination on ''Dancing With the Stars.''
But you don't particularly want his character in the show to succeed, and that really is a problem. He portrays the self-invented J. Pierrepont Finch, a boyish man without a discernible past who -- by systematically following the rules of a book that shares its title with this musical -- works his way ever upward at the World Wide Wicket Company in New York City.
''How to Succeed,'' which won the 1962 Pulitzer Prize for drama, was rather refreshing for its time in that Ponty (as he asks people to call him) was just as calculating and amoral as some other top-of-the-heap businessmen in real life. And he didn't have to die or repent or even apologize for doing so well, so coldly.
But the show's book writers (Abe Burrows, Jack Weinstock and Willie Gilbert) failed to give Ponty any defining traits beyond all-consuming ambition. It was left to whoever played him to provide the extras, like a personality. Robert Morse, who created the role on Broadway, endowed him with an irresistible impish energy that is evident even in the so-so 1967 movie. Matthew Broderick brought to the 1995 Broadway revival a ''take me I'm yours'' passivity that verged on the robotic but won him a Tony anyway.
Mr. Radcliffe's performance goes even further, purging Ponty of any individualizing quirks. He's a tabula rasa who absorbs his professional bible's lessons on whom to stroke and how. This blank-slate aspect is unconditionally supported by the prevailing blankness of Mr. Radcliffe's face.
Whenever Ponty smiles at his latest stroke of good fortune (a change in expression wittily underlined by music and lighting), it's a wee bit chilling. You understand why this guy's co-workers resent and fear him. He's like some super automaton who has been thrust into their midst both to mock and eliminate them.
I suppose there's a case to be made for reconceiving ''How to Succeed'' as a variation on ''Invasion of the Body Snatchers.'' Certainly, Derek McLane's sets, color-coded visions of modernist honeycomb architecture (matched by Catherine Zuber's interchangeable off-the-rack business suits and secretarial outfits), would seem to support the notion of an assembly-line world.
But generally, this production doesn't have a sensibility to call its own, unless you count the evident feeling of relief that -- thanks to the success of ''Mad Men'' -- you don't have to make excuses for enjoying the bad behavior of sexist cads in neckties from the early '60s. As both director and choreographer, Mr. Ashford, who took on the same era with similar results in last season's revival of ''Promises, Promises,'' keeps the show moving nimbly enough. (The original book, to which this version sticks closely, is as well built as Hedy La Rue, the show's resident lust object, played here by Tammy Blanchard.)
Most of the supporting cast is passable and generic. As J. B. Biggley, the head of World Wide Wicket, John Larroquette (best known for television's ''Night Court'') provides some funny throwaway line readings, though he also frequently throws away clear diction. Rose Hemingway is pretty and squeaky as the secretary who sets her cap for Ponty. Christopher J. Hanke, who plays Ponty's rival (and the boss's nephew), is a natural male ingenue trying to pass himself off as a character actor. Rob Bartlett is both grumpy and twinkly as two different managerial types.
Only Ellen Harvey, as Mr. Biggley's seen-it-all-secretary, and Ms. Blanchard, who gives an original comic spin to her bombshell character, have some distinctive flair. Oh, yes, the recorded voice of the newscaster Anderson Cooper is heard as the narrator, exuding an appropriate deadpan wryness.
The dancing features a lot of the dervish twirls and 90-to-180-degree kicks that Mr. Ashford favored in recent London revivals of ''Evita'' and ''Guys and Dolls,'' as well as in ''Promises, Promises.'' (High kicking and twirling are evidently common to all times and places.) Loesser's songs are wonderful, of course, top-of-the-line models of tuneful wit and economy. But they aren't rendered here with the conviction that might make them ring new.
That makes Mr. Radcliffe the only reason to see the show, and contrary to what the title suggests, this young actor really, really tries. (He even does a somersault and lets himself be passed through the air for a football fantasy sequence.) His effortful performance is sure to stir maternal instincts among women of all ages (and probably some men too) and comradely protectiveness among his fans.
And -- who knows? -- perhaps with time this game, engaged performer will come up with a real character to play here. Meanwhile, when he leads the show's big finale, the satirical rouser ''Brotherhood of Man,'' you can be forgiven for thinking it might better be titled ''Brotherhood of Manikins.''
HOW TO SUCCEED IN BUSINESS
WITHOUT REALLY TRYING
Music and lyrics by Frank Loesser; book by Abe Burrows, Jack Weinstock and Willie Gilbert, based on the book by Shepherd Mead; directed and choreographed by Rob Ashford; music direction and arrangements by David Chase; sets by Derek McLane; costumes by Catherine Zuber; lighting by Howell Binkley; sound by Jon Weston; hair and wig design by Tom Watson; orchestrations by Doug Besterman; music coordinator, Howard Joines; production stage manager, Michael J. Passaro; associate director, Stephen Sposito; associate choreographer, Christopher Bailey; production manager, Juniper Street Productions; general managers, Alan Wasser-Allan Williams, Mark Shacket; associate producers, Stage Ventures 2010 Limited Partnership; executive producer, Beth Williams. Presented by Broadway Across America, Craig Zadan, Neil Meron, Joseph Smith, Michael McCabe, Candy Spelling, Takonkiet Viravan/Scenario Thailand, Hilary A. Williams, Jen Namoff/Fakston Productions, Two Left Feet Productions/Power Arts, Hop Theatricals LLC/Paul Chau/Daniel Frishwasser/Michael Jackowitz and Michael Speyer-Bernie Abrams/Jacki Barlia Florin-Adam Blanshay/Arlene Scanlan/TBS Service. At the Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Manhattan; (212) 239-6200; telecharge.com. Running time: 2 hours 40 minutes.
WITH: Daniel Radcliffe (J. Pierrepont Finch), John Larroquette (J. B. Biggley), Tammy Blanchard (Hedy La Rue), Christopher J. Hanke (Bud Frump), Rob Bartlett (Mr. Twimble/Wally Womper), Mary Faber (Smitty), Ellen Harvey (Miss Jones), Michael Park (Mr. Bratt), Rose Hemingway (Rosemary Pilkington) and Anderson Cooper (the Voice of the Narrator).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying: Daniel Radcliffe stars in Rob Ashford's revival of this musical at the Al Hirschfeld Theater.(C1)
 Trying to succeed: Daniel Radcliffe and Tammy Blanchard in Rob Ashford's production. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); DANCE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); FILM (73%); RAP MUSIC (71%); MUSIC (71%); WRITERS (65%); THEATER (56%)

PERSON: DANIEL RADCLIFFE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

TITLE: How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying (Play)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



658 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: A War By Any Name

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
Tonight, in a speech that probably should have been delivered before American planes began flying missions over North Africa, Barack Obama will try to explain to a puzzled nation why we are at war with Libya.
Not that the word ''war'' will pass his lips, most likely. In press briefings last week, our Libyan campaign was euphemized into a ''kinetic military action'' and a ''time-limited, scope-limited military action.'' (The online parodies were merciless: ''Make love, not time-limited, scope-limited military actions!'' ''Let slip the muzzled canine unit of kinetic military action!'') Advertising tonight's address, the White House opted for ''the situation in Libya,'' which sounds less like a military intervention than a spin-off vehicle for the famous musclehead from MTV's ''Jersey Shore.''
But by any name or euphemism, the United States has gone to war, and there are questions that the president must answer. Here are the four biggest ones: 
What are our military objectives? The strict letter of the United Nations resolution we're enforcing only authorizes the use of air power to protect civilian populations ''under threat of attack'' from Qaddafi's forces. But we're interpreting that mandate as liberally as possible: our strikes have cleared the way for a rebel counteroffensive, whose success is contingent on our continued air support.
If the rebels stall out short of Tripoli, though, how will we respond? With a permanent no-fly zone, effectively establishing a NATO protectorate in eastern Libya? With arms for the anti-Qaddafi forces, so they can finish the job? Either way, the logic of this conflict suggests a more open-ended commitment than the White House has been willing to admit.
Who exactly are the rebels? According to our ambassador to Libya, they have issued policy statements that include ''all the right elements'' -- support for democracy, economic development, women's rights, etc. According to The Los Angeles Times, they have filled what used to be Qaddafi's prisons with ''enemies of the revolution'' -- mostly black Africans, rounded up under suspicion of being mercenaries and awaiting revolutionary justice. According to The Daily Telegraph in London, their front-line forces include what one rebel commander calls the ''patriots and good Muslims'' who fought American forces in Iraq.
Perhaps Obama can clarify this picture. The rebels don't need to be saints to represent an improvement on Qaddafi. But given that we're dropping bombs on their behalf, it would be nice if they didn't turn out to be Jacobins or Islamists.
Can we really hand off this mission? Officially, this is a far more multilateral venture than was, say, the invasion of Iraq. But as Foreign Policy's Josh Rogin points out, when it comes to direct military support, this war's coalition is ''smaller than any major multilateral operation since the end of the Cold War.'' Officially, too, the United States is already stepping back into a supporting role, as NATO takes over the command. But as Wired's Spencer Ackerman argues, the difference between a ''high'' United States involvement and a ''low'' military commitment may prove more semantic than meaningful.
Obama has said our involvement will be measured in ''days, not weeks.'' With one week down already, is this really plausible? And anyway, how responsible is it to commit American forces to a mission and then suggest, as a senior administration official did last week, that ''how it turns out is not on our shoulders''?
Is Libya distracting us from more pressing American interests? While we've been making war on Qaddafi's tin-pot regime, our enemies in Syria have been shooting protesters, our allies in Saudi Arabia have been crushing dissidents, Yemen's government is teetering, there's been an upsurge of violence in Israel, and the Muslim Brotherhood seems to be moving smoothly into an alliance with the Egyptian military. Oh, and we're still occupying Iraq and fighting a counterinsurgency in Afghanistan and trying to contain Iran.
Last week, The Atlantic's Jeffrey Goldberg rank-ordered Mideast trouble spots that ''demand more American attention than Libya.'' He came up with six: Afghanistan-Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, Yemen's Qaeda havens, post-Mubarak Egypt and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
One can quibble with Goldberg's ordering but not his broader point. While we intervene in Libya, what is our Egypt policy? Our Yemen policy? Our Syria policy? With the entire Middle East in turmoil, does it make sense that Washington is focused so intently on who controls the highway between Ajdabiya and Surt?
It's clear that not everyone in this White House thinks so. Defending the intervention on ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday, Robert Gates let slip that he believes that Libya is not a ''vital interest'' of the United States.
President Obama's most pressing task tonight will be to explain why his secretary of defense is wrong -- and why, appearances to the contrary, the potential payoff from our Libyan war more than justifies the risks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ARMED FORCES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (62%); WOMEN (61%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2011



659 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'THE OTHER PLACE'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Confronting Illness and a Crumbling Life

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
A sense of disorientation unites audience and protagonist in ''The Other Place,'' a new drama by Sharr White about a forceful businesswoman confronting the onset of an illness whose nature keeps eluding her grasp. The play, which opened on Monday night at the Lucille Lortel Theater in an MCC Theater production, is dominated by a compelling, at times scarily intense performance from Laurie Metcalf.
Ms. Metcalf's Juliana Smithton narrates the story of the medical crisis that upends her life with an authority that invites our trust. Crisply dressed in smart corporate attire, she relates in clipped, unemotional tones the details of an ''episode'' at a convention in the Virgin Islands that has left her convinced that she has brain cancer. A biophysicist turned pharmaceutical pitchwoman, she became confused during her address to an audience of doctors: losing the thread of her speech, peculiarly fixated on an interloper in a yellow bikini, ultimately unable to form even simple sentences. 
Juliana's calamity comes at a painful time, as she informs the doctor (Aya Cash) she consults back in New York. Responding with prickly sensitivity to basic questions, she becomes contentious even on the subject of her name, and snaps out the information that her philandering husband is divorcing her.
In that case would she prefer that her maiden name be used? ''Well, I would, but it's Liffenberger,'' she grouses. ''How could I go back after Smithton; Juliana Smithton sounds like I was born with a tennis bracelet.''
Ms. Metcalf, the veteran of television's ''Roseanne'' who has profitably returned to her stage roots in the last decade or so, brings savory sardonic inflections to her performance as this tough-hided character. But while the dark humor remains a constant, Juliana's personality seems to shift from scene to scene, so that our perspective slowly evolves from one of innate sympathy (she's smart, funny and dying, with a cheating husband to boot!) to something more objective. Is she as stoic and sensible as she seems, or prey to paranoia, or are other factors at work?
Defensive and peremptory in her dealings with her doctor, Juliana is alternately reasonable and antagonistic at home with her husband, Ian Smithton (Dennis Boutsikaris), who happens to be an oncologist. (Not the last of the play's sometimes forced coincidences.) Juliana's take-no-prisoners tone melts into something more resembling beseeching need in her phone conversations with her estranged daughter, Laurel (also played by Ms. Cash). Neither Ian nor Juliana has spoken to Laurel in almost a decade, after she disappeared from their home as a 15-year-old in the company of one of Juliana's research assistants (John Schiappa, in a minuscule role).
Gradually our faith in this seemingly most reliable of narrators is undermined by deftly disclosed pieces of information positing a narrative at odds with Juliana's. Ian, whom Mr. Boutsikaris embodies with a grave sympathy tinged with exasperation, seems an equally trustworthy interpreter of the facts, and he gently begins poking holes in her diagnosis.
It would not be sporting to divulge much more about the play's revelations. Although ''The Other Place'' is fluidly directed by Joe Mantello, once the play has spilled its secrets, it loses some of its dramatic charge. After a climactic flashback scene, set at the family's Cape Cod summer home (of the title), another long scene follows, introducing a distracting extraneous character. (Ms. Cash again, doing a fine job of differentiating her three roles.) This extended passage also pushes the play a little too far in the direction of a weepy, disease-of-the-week television movie.
While they are economically and effectively drawn, the play's ancillary characters mostly just orbit the central Juliana, appearing in a couple of scenes and making it hard for us to engage emotionally with any of the relationships depicted. Fortunately, Ms. Metcalf's commanding performance keeps us involved in the crisis that envelops Juliana.
As she becomes obsessed with the trauma of Laurel's disappearance, the pressures of her illness begin to fracture her securely ordered mind. Ms. Metcalf depicts this process with transparent simplicity.
The doubt that slowly begins tugging away the foundations of Juliana's confidence can almost be seen gathering in her piercing brown eyes. Sudden flares of uncontrolled feeling appear like lightning flashes from a sky that was clear just moments before. A woman who has kept anguish at bay by maintaining strict control of her intellect and her emotions, Juliana must learn to live without certainty.
The Other Place
By Sharr White; directed by Joe Mantello; sets by Eugene Lee; costumes by Dane Laffrey; lighting by Justin Townsend; sound by Fitz Patton; projections and video by William Cusick; production stage manager, Linda Marvel; production manager, B. D. White; general manager, Ted Rounsaville. Presented by MCC Theater, Robert LuPone, Bernard Telsey and William Cantler, artistic directors; Blake West, executive director; in association with Marc Platt. At the Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village; (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com.
Through April 24. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes.
WITH: Dennis Boutsikaris (Ian), Aya Cash (the Woman), Laurie Metcalf (Juliana) and John Schiappa (the Man).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Other Place Dennis Boutsikaris and Laurie Metcalf in ''The Other Place,'' by Sharr White, at the Lucille Lortel Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (89%); CANCER (77%); ONCOLOGY (74%); BIOPHYSICS (71%); BIOLOGY (69%); BRAIN CANCER (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

TITLE: Other Place, The (Play)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



660 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2446 words

HEADLINE: When All Isn't Enough to Stop a Catastrophe

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER, MATTHEW L. WALD and TOM ZELLER Jr.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- American nuclear safety regulators, using a complex mathematical technique, determined that the simultaneous failure of both emergency shutdown systems that are designed to prevent a core meltdown was so unlikely that it would happen once every 17,000 years.
But 20 years ago, it happened twice in four days at a pair of nuclear reactors in southern New Jersey.
The American people, and the regulators whose job it is to protect them from a catastrophic nuclear accident, are watching the unfolding events at a complex of crippled reactors in Japan with foreboding and an overriding question: Can it happen here?
The answer -- probably not -- from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is meant to reassure. But as the New Jersey accidents in 1983, which did not result in any core damage or release of radiation, show, no one can predict what might upend all the computer models, emergency planning and backup systems designed to eliminate those narrow theoretical probabilities or mitigate their effects. 
''We can never say that that could never happen here,'' said Anthony R. Pietrangelo, senior vice president and chief nuclear officer at the Nuclear Energy Institute, the industry's main trade association. ''It doesn't matter how you get there, whether it's a hurricane, whether it's a tsunami, whether it's a seismic event, whether it's a terrorist attack, whether it's a cyberattack, whether it's operator error, or some other failure in the plant -- it doesn't matter. We have to be prepared to deal with those events.''
The threats considered most serious by nuclear engineers are problems that lead to a loss of power. Lack of power to run cooling systems for the reactor core and for spent-fuel ponds led to the explosions and release of radiation at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear complex in Japan.
American nuclear facilities have backup power systems, and backups to those. All plants are required to have batteries to provide power in the event of a loss of power and failure of backup generators. In the United States, 93 of the 104 operating reactors have batteries capable of providing power for four hours; the other 11 have eight-hour batteries. Fukushima had eight-hour batteries. It wasn't enough.
No single analysis can discern which nuclear power plants in the United States are most at risk for a disaster, But the probabilities of an accident leading to damage to a reactor core have been roughly penciled out.
A 2003 Nuclear Regulatory Commission report, based on data submitted by plant owners, looked at the risk of equipment breakdowns, power failures and other factors that could lead to core damage.
It found that reactor No. 1 at Three Mile Island, near Harrisburg, Pa., would appear to be at greatest risk. (Three Mile Island is, of course, the plant that suffered a partial core meltdown in reactor No. 2 in 1979, the worst accident so far in the commercial nuclear power industry in the United States) By the commission's calculations, such an episode would occur there roughly once every 2,227 years. By contrast, the expected frequency of a core damage accident at the Quad Cities facility in Illinois is once every 833,000 years.
''These sorts of big numbers can tell you which plants need to take steps first to fix general problems, or which plants might have wider margins if a problem were to occur,'' said David Lochbaum, a nuclear engineer and the director of the Nuclear Safety Project of the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental and nuclear watchdog group. ''They're not going to tell you when that bad day is going to arrive.''
Regulators and federal courts have discounted the likelihood of multiple crises hitting a nuclear facility at the same time. One federal judge, ruling against opponents of the Diablo Canyon nuclear plant near San Luis Obispo, Calif., said that the odds of an earthquake setting off a nuclear accident at the plant were negligible.
''The commission has determined that the chance of such a bizarre concatenation of events occurring is extremely small,'' the court said.
But the crisis at Fukushima shows that such natural catastrophes can occur. The fact that the odds of a nuclear accident are unknowable and the risks hard to measure make it in some ways more frightening than the known -- and greater -- risks of driving without a seat belt or breathing the fumes from a coal-burning power plant.
''People are scared of certain things. It's part of our makeup,'' said Robert H. Socolow, a physicist at Princeton University. ''The public is more afraid of radiation than the experts who work with it every day. But this is about irreducible irrationality, if you like. We are irrational, every last one of us.''
Fresh Eye on American Plants
In the wake of the disaster in Japan, concerns were quickly raised at the Turkey Point nuclear power plant in Florida, on Biscayne Bay 24 miles south of Miami. Critics pointed to the potential for a hurricane to create a storm surge that could simultaneously sever grid power and inundate backup generators -- precisely the recipe that crippled Fukushima.
In 1992, Turkey Point took a direct hit from Hurricane Andrew, causing a loss of off-site power for more than five days. Backup systems, however, allowed operators to keep the reactors cool until power could be restored. Paul Gunter, the director of the Reactor Oversight Project for the group Beyond Nuclear, which opposes nuclear energy, joined other critics in pointing to the Dresden nuclear facility in Morris, Ill., and the nearby Quad Cities plant in Cordova, both of which are north of the New Madrid seismic zone. The area registered quakes estimated to have exceeded 7.0 in magnitude in 1811 and 1812, and is known for somewhat more regular temblors of lesser intensity.
Exelon, the operator of both facilities, said that all of its plants are designed to withstand substantial earthquakes, but argued that none -- including Dresden and Quad Cities, which are hundreds of miles from the New Madrid fault line -- are actually considered to be in significant earthquake zones.
Still, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission announced last week that it would be conducting new seismic risk assessments next year at 17 plants -- including Dresden.
The Diablo Canyon nuclear power plant is not on the commission's list. The plant, on an 85-foot bluff above the Pacific Ocean, is owned by Pacific Gas & Electric, about halfway between San Francisco and Los Angeles.
Opponents of that plant redoubled their efforts when PG&E began seeking early renewal on its two 40-year licenses -- chiefly on the ground that the seismic studies that underwrote the original licensing in the 1970s were inadequate, and are now sorely out of date.
A fault line discovered in 2008, called the Shoreline Fault, runs about half a mile from the front door of Diablo Canyon. Opponents want new seismic studies before the plant's license is renewed, but PG&E, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and other experts argue that the fault poses no threat that the nuclear facility couldn't handle.
As at Diablo Canyon, fears of an earthquake near the Indian Point nuclear power facility, about 30 miles north of New York City, were stoked in 2008 when researchers at the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory at Columbia University discovered a pattern of small but active faults in the area, suggesting that earthquakes near the plant were more common than once thought.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York has called a special meeting with federal regulators to discuss earthquake risks and preparedness at the facility. Among the concerns: how to execute an orderly evacuation of one of the most densely populated regions of the country -- particularly given that the government mandates that officials plan only for a 10-mile escape radius.
How Risk Is Calculated
As part of its mission to ensure the safety of nuclear power, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission sets two goals: that the public's risk of death from acute radiation sickness from nuclear reactors should not exceed one-thousandth of the risk of accidental death from all sources, and that the risk of fatal cancer likewise should not exceed that amount.
The commission, looking at how much radiation it would take to kill people in accidents, and how much it would take to raise cancer rates, decided that reactors would meet that standard if there were meltdowns with off-site consequences only once per 100,000 years of operation.
With 104 American reactors now running, that would mean such an event once every 1,000 years or so. The commission asserts that all plants currently meet that safety standard, according to an analysis that looks at the chance that any piece of equipment will fail, and what other failures that might lead to, under a mathematical method called probabilistic risk assessment, Martin A. Stutzke, the commission's senior technical adviser for probabilistic risk assessment technologies, said in an interview.
To meet the government's goal, about 80 percent of the plants have made changes since the early 1990s, industry experts say. Many of the changes were to cope with new calculations of earthquake frequency and intensity. But while the safety goal of once in 100,000 years expresses a real number, the component failure numbers are yardsticks that may be wrong. ''The numbers have tremendous uncertainty with them,'' he said. They could be off by a factor of 10, he said.
Earthquakes are a challenge, Mr. Stutzke said, because the historical record is so short. The Richter scale is 75 years old. For earlier records, he said, experts study old newspaper accounts -- ''church bells ringing, chimneys knocked over, this sort of thing,'' he said. Geologists also use carbon dating and other techniques to estimate the time and scale of older earthquakes.
The inherent problem, risk experts say, is that it is hard to determine the size of the worst natural hazard, said Douglas E. True, of ERIN Engineering and Research in Walnut Creek, Calif.
American reactors may be better protected than those at the Japanese plant were, because of precautions taken after Sept. 11 for a terrorist or military attack, according to industry and government officials and academic experts. American nuclear plant operators are required to have diesel fuel and pumps on site or readily available nearby to provide backup power and cooling capacity. Right after the Fukushima crisis they were ordered to check that they had the required equipment on hand and in working order.
The details are classified, but the industry has emergency supplies of pumps, hoses and generators, and the plan assumes Air Force help in moving equipment when needed.
''We have military capability that's pretty impressive, a transport system that can move big pieces of equipment very quickly,'' said Dale Klein, a commission chairman in the second Bush administration. If the diesel generators fail, he said, it makes no difference whether the cause was attack, tsunami or earthquake; the remedy is the same.
Another former chairman, Richard Meserve, who was in that position at the time of the 2001 attacks, said, ''The challenge that we confront is that external events obviously can occur that may be larger than you expected.''
The commission will not discuss the precautions it has in place to contend with such events, citing security considerations.
Alternatives Carry Risks Too
There is no simple or single way to properly weigh the risks of nuclear power against other energy sources, or other risks of modern life, said David Ropeik, an instructor at Harvard University, consultant to industry and author of ''How Risky Is It, Really? Why Our Fears Don't Always Match the Facts.''
''What we're afraid of determines how we behave, and sometimes those behaviors become risks in themselves,'' he said. He cited a study by two researchers at the University of Michigan who found that fear of flying after the Sept. 11 hijackings had caused an additional 1,018 highway deaths in just the first three months after the attacks.
Radiation is a real threat, nuclear physicists say, but not as great as many people believe it is, and not as great as other threats. Indeed, every energy source comes with dangers, from the mine or wellhead to the smokestack or tailpipe.
''One million people a year die prematurely in China from air pollution from energy and industrial sectors,'' said Stefan Hirschberg, head of safety analysis at the Paul Scherrer Institute, an engineering research center in Switzerland. More than 10,000 Americans a year die prematurely from the health effects of breathing emissions from coal-burning power plants, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.
Coal mining accidents in China kill an estimated 6,000 people a year, according to China's Mining Ministry. In just the past year in the United States, the Deepwater Horizon blowout killed 11 people, the Upper Big Branch coal mine blast killed 29 and a natural gas pipeline explosion in California killed 8.
But such statistics don't alter the public's view of nuclear accidents.
Michael A. Levi, senior fellow for energy and the environment at the Council on Foreign Relations, said there is no right way to gauge risk. It is an intensely personal matter affected by a lot of factors.
''When you hear these arguments that pollution from coal plants costs so many thousands of lives compared to minimal or no deaths from nuclear accidents, that may be technically true, but it leaves a lot of people cold. It's like saying, 'Don't pay attention to the twin towers falling; more people die crossing the street,' '' he said. ''Experts should not say, 'Here's how you should feel about risk.' They should be saying, 'Here are the facts. You decide what matters to you.' ''
A 2006 study of survivors of the 1986 Chernobyl accident, compiled by the International Atomic Energy Agency, the World Bank and a number of United Nations bodies, found that the biggest health impact was psychological.
''The mental health impact of Chernobyl is the largest public health problem unleashed by the accident to date,'' according to the report, ''Chernobyl's Legacy: Health, Environmental and Socio-Economic Impacts.'' ''Psychological distress arising from the accident and its aftermath has had a profound impact on individual and community behavior,'' including a sense of fatalism and dependency that has been transferred to the next generation in the affected zone.
''There is no question we should be appropriately concerned about nuclear power,'' Mr. Ropeik said. ''But 'appropriately' is the important distinction. On a continuum, there is no question in my mind that the dangers from fossil fuel burning should worry us more.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EARTHQUAKE FEARS The Shoreline Fault, half a mile away, doesn't threaten the Diablo Canyon plant near San Luis Obispo, Calif., some experts say. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK RALSTON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
HURRICANE FEARS: Critics point to the potential for a storm to sever grid power and inundate backup generators at the Turkey Point plant near Miami. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (D4) GRAPHIC: Theoretical Risk at Nuclear Power Plants: Many critics say that the United States needs to increase oversight and the stringency of safety regulations at its nuclear power plants but nothing can ensure that there will never be any kind of accident at one. (Sources: Nuclear Regulatory Commission
David Lochbaum (Union of Concerned Scientists)
 LandScan 2009 population dataset/UT-Battelle) (GRAPHIC BY KARL RUSSELL AND MATTHEW L. WALD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (76%); MATHEMATICS (75%); ENGINEERING (73%); CYBERCRIME (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); TSUNAMIS (70%); TERRORISM (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (83%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (50%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



661 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASKETBALL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: UConn Keeps Winning, Fans Just Shrug and Auriemma Stews

BYLINE: By Jere Longman

 BODY:
PHILADELPHIA
While Connecticut trailed much of its game Sunday against Georgetown before winning, 68-63, in the N.C.A.A. women's basketball tournament, Coach Geno Auriemma said he half-expected to hear Howard Cosell shouting, ''Down goes UConn!''
He is resigned to a sober reality after seven national titles: his team may be popular only when it is vulnerable. UConn on the brink of defeat, Auriemma understands, is now more compelling than UConn winning by a wide margin. 
''You're damned if you do, damned if you don't,'' Auriemma said as UConn prepared to face Duke on Tuesday in the final of the Philadelphia Regional. ''If we blow everybody out by 40, people aren't going to watch. They say there's no competition. If we're on the verge of losing, everybody wants to watch, not to root for the team that's going to beat us but to revel in the fact that we lost.''
In winning 113 of its last 114 games, UConn has put itself in an odd position: victory is the only acceptable outcome, but the more the Huskies win, the more indifferent even their own fans become.
This peculiar season has capped a record 90-game winning streak and has produced a chance for a third consecutive national championship. Yet it has also produced frustration for Auriemma, who has engineered a 35-1 record with two freshman starters and a thin bench but has been unable to entice a largely unresponsive public.
Victory has seemed less appreciated than ignored, or even resented by some. That can drive Auriemma crazy. After Gampel Pavilion on campus remained half-empty last Tuesday for a second-round tournament game, he said UConn fans were spoiled.
''They would be really disappointed in me if all of a sudden we won half our games,'' Auriemma said. ''So I would think the same is true on the other end.''
In December, as UConn matched and surpassed the 88-game winning streak set by the U.C.L.A. men of the early 1970s, Auriemma criticized ''miserable'' fans of men's basketball who, in his view, did not want the Huskies to break that hallowed record.
He saw gender bias in the way people followed UConn's streak. Had it been a women's record instead of a men's record being surpassed, he said, the Huskies would have received scant news media attention and the admonition ''let's send them back where they belong, in the kitchen.''
A few hours before UConn played its regular-season finale against Syracuse, Auriemma sat in his office and said he had considered the circumstances under which he might eventually leave.
''At what point does it stop being expected?'' he said of incessant victory. ''When does reality set in? All this winning is wearing on me. That's a stupid statement, isn't it? But it's not normal.''
Sports are supposed to be about winning and losing and learning lessons, he said.
''Some people actually thought we were going to win 100-some games in a row,'' Auriemma said. ''That's not normal behavior. I'm sitting here every day going, 'Man, what I wouldn't give for seven or eight losses in a year.' Just so you could say, 'See, what we're doing is really hard.' ''
It seems highly unlikely that Auriemma would leave UConn before 2012, when he will coach the women's Olympic team and certainly have a number of former Huskies on the roster. But it also seems clear that he has grown restless, sensing that many believe he is winning only because he has all of the best players.
He does have the country's top player in Maya Moore, but he also has a freshman point guard and a freshman center and only one reliable player off the bench.
''When you know you've got an unbeatable team, it feels good,'' Auriemma said. The wearisome thing, he added, is ''when you have a team with a couple young kids and the kids do unbelievable stuff and it's like, 'Well, of course, you're Connecticut, you're supposed to do that.' ''
It is always risky to criticize your fans. People have a right to spend their entertainment dollars as they see fit. Budgets are tight in a struggling economy. And few, if any, women's fan bases are as large and largely uncritical as UConn's.
''The only thing that would drive me away was if I wasn't having fun,'' Auriemma said. ''People assume that just because you're winning, you're having fun.''
Fun is one thing, but Auriemma also makes $1.6 million in annual salary. And his team has a news media following that most men's teams would die for. ''It is strange,'' he said of his team's conundrum, but added, ''I wouldn't trade it.''
And yet, something diminishing occurs when excellence becomes so routine that it elicits apathy rather than appreciation.
''People were so excited for us,'' Jennifer Rizzotti, the coach at Hartford and the point guard on UConn's first national championship team, in 1995, told reporters earlier in the N.C.A.A. tournament. ''These kids will never know what that's like.''
Still, Auriemma forges ahead, scheduling many more top-10 teams than the U.C.L.A. men did. Of the final 16 teams in this N.C.A.A. tournament, the Huskies played 10 of them during the regular season.
Women's basketball is developing at a similar pace as men's basketball. This is the 30th year of the women's N.C.A.A. tournament; the 30th year of the men's tournament occurred in 1968, amid U.C.L.A.'s run of seven titles. So the Huskies are no more dominant than the Bruins were. Yet their success is dismissed by some as being bad for basketball, but U.C.L.A. was heralded for being dynastic.
''In order to bring back that sense of competitiveness, we've got to start losing,'' Auriemma said in his sarcastic way. ''Once you start losing, people will get excited and say, 'Let's go to the game to see if they're going to win.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Coach Geno Auriemma feels the expectations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (84%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (58%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



662 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: In Brazil, No Room For Leverage

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
SAO PAULO, Brazil -- ''We use zero leverage.''
Luiz Otavio Magalhaes, the founding partner of one of the most successful private equity firms in Brazil, was trying to explain his business model to me. His leveraged buyout firm, Patria, easily garners more than 20 percent returns annually. That kind of performance attracted the attention of Steven Schwarzman, whose Blackstone Group bought a 40 percent stake last year.
Yet this L.B.O. fund is, uniquely, missing the ''L.'' 
''Zero,'' he said again, as if to underscore the point.
Billions of dollars are rushing into Brazil's economy. International private equity firms, like Blackstone and the Carlyle Group, are scrambling to capture of a piece of this emerging market before it has fully emerged. JPMorgan Chase recently paid $6 billion to buy 55 percent of Gavea, a seven-year-old investment fund co-founded by Arminio Fraga, the former president of the central bank of Brazil from 1999 to 2002.
But perhaps the most unusual aspect of the private equity industry here is that its success thus far has had nothing to do with burdening its acquisition targets with heaps of debt. Indeed, this version of the private equity business is exactly the opposite: improving a company's operations instead of turning to financial engineering to squeeze out performance. It is a mantra that many private equity firms in the United States and Europe pay lip service to but do not follow in practice.
The reason that private equity firms in Brazil do not use debt is simple. In Brazil, money does not come cheap, Mr. Magalhaes explained over coffee in the firm's offices along one of the main sections of downtown Sao Paulo.
A private equity firm looking for a loan from a bank in Brazil might have to pay as much 20 percent interest annually. A loan in the United States, on the other hand, might pay only about 6 percent. The reason for the lack of leverage, at least for now, becomes obvious.
''That's just the way we do it. This is not an environment where leverage plays a meaningful role,'' Mr. Fraga said in an interview.
So how does Mr. Magalhaes's firm, with about $4.3 billion under management, make such huge profits? For starters, he does not pursue elephant-size deals that are popular in America.
''There is always room for improvements in smaller companies. Family-owned companies, as we usually say, 'Their kitchen is a mess,' '' he said. ''Usually when you are talking about bigger companies, the room for improvements within the company are smaller because the company needs to be already better organized, otherwise they will not have survived.''
He also focuses almost exclusively on buying family-controlled businesses, which, are often more difficult negotiations than with public companies.
''We had dinner with the wife of this guy because he wanted her to know the guys with whom he would be associating,'' Mr. Magalhaes said about a recent acquisition target. ''It's fair that she wants to know us.'' He added, ''These companies are still under the radar, they do not mandate JPMorgan or Goldman Sachs to find me.''
If his principles sound like what the fledgling private equity industry circa the 1970s in the United States pursued, that's because they are. Mr. Magalhaes isn't bidding for companies in auctions or forming consortiums with other firms. He spends years developing relationships with small companies until they are willing to sell to him.
He bought a medical diagnosis company in 2000 that had 18 outlets with $90 million in revenue. By 2009, when Patria exited, the company had more than 300 shops with $1.6 billion in revenue.
Among his, other attributes, Mr. Magalhaes is uncharacteristically casual for a private equity boss. Forget about pinstripes; he is dressed in jeans and a work shirt. To prepare for a meeting with Mr. Schwarzman in 2010, he hurriedly reminded his staff the day before to come in a dark suit.
Mr. Magalhaes made a deal with Mr. Schwarzman after a courtship that is similar to the one he often has with his own acquisition targets, as it took almost decade before a deal was reached. For Blackstone, the deal allows the firm to tap into Brazil's fast-growing market using local expertise. Patria's $4.3 billion under management includes money allotted for traditional private equity, real estate, infrastructure, a small hedge fund and a small advisory business. It is, in other words, a mini-Blackstone.
The big question facing Mr. Magalhaes and others in his industry is whether they can sustain their performance as bigger players enter the market, looking for even bigger prey.
For now, Mr. Magalhaes says he is not worried. With the Brazilian economy growing at a rapid clip, the wind is at his back.
But he and Mr. Fraga acknowledge that the business is becoming more competitive. As the cost of debt comes down, they worry that Brazil's private equity industry may resemble the buyout shops in the United States.
''There will be more leverage for sure,'' Mr. Fraga said. ''Hopefully, we won't do anything too stupid when the opportunity becomes real.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arminio Fraga, left, was a co-founder of Gavea, an investment fund in which JPMorgan Chase bought a majority stake. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); FAMILY (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (56%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); CG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%) BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



663 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Spending Rises 0.7%; Inflation Edges Up 0.2%

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Consumer spending rose for an eighth consecutive month in February as households faced higher food and energy prices.
Spending rose 0.7 percent in February after a 0.3 percent increase in January, and inflation accelerated at its fastest rate since June 2009, the Commerce Department said on Monday. 
Adjusted for inflation, consumer spending was up 0.3 percent last month after being flat the previous month.
''The data provide yet more evidence that higher prices are denting economic growth,'' said Paul Dales, a senior United States economist at Capital Economics in Toronto.
Economists polled by Reuters had expected spending to advance 0.6 percent.
Another report showed that pending sales of previously owned homes unexpectedly rose in February. The National Association of Realtors said its pending home sales index, based on contracts signed in February, increased 2.1 percent, to 90.8, after declining for the last two months.
Economists had expected a 1 percent decline after a previously reported 2.8 percent decline. Compared to February 2010, the index was down 8.2 percent.
After increasing at its fastest rate in four years in the final three months of 2010, consumer spending is expected to slow in the first quarter, with rising energy and food prices stealing from spending on other items.
High food and energy prices pushed up overall inflation last month. The Commerce Department said the personal consumption expenditures price index rose 0.4 percent, the fastest since June 2009, after gaining 0.3 percent in January
Excluding food and energy -- a core measure of inflation that is closely watched by the Federal Reserve -- the index increased 0.2 percent after rising by the same margin in January.
Incomes rose 0.3 percent last month after rising 1.2 percent in January. Economists had expected a 0.4 percent gain.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Higher fuel prices helped push up consumer spending, which rose for the eighth month in a row. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); INFLATION (89%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



664 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Pretty as a (Census) Picture

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
It has been said that in America, a minority group has not truly arrived into the mainstream until it has been marketed to. That was true for African-Americans, gay men and lesbians and, most recently, consumers who speak Spanish.
It took a while for many advertisers to recognize the growing economic power of Hispanic America, but the results of the 2000 census helped to persuade the laggards of their need to address this fast-growing demographic group.
The data now being released from the 2010 census are underlining those convictions. Estimates are that the Hispanic population will exceed 50 million and account for 16.3 percent of the total for the country.
Also according to those estimates, Hispanics accounted for more than half the growth of the total American population in the last decade as their ranks increased 43 percent from the 2000 census. 
''For us, Hispanic consumers are a very, very important target,'' says Marc Speichert, chief marketing officer at L'Oreal USA in New York, part of the giant cosmetics, fragrance and beauty-products company L'Oreal.
''We see it as a growth opportunity for the future,'' he adds, ''and are increasing the spending'' for ads in Spanish.
A case in point is a new initiative for which L'Oreal USA is joining forces with the Telemundo Communications Group, part of NBCUniversal, which is controlled by the Comcast Corporation.
L'Oreal USA brands like Garnier, L'Oreal Paris, Matrix and Maybelline New York are the sponsors of Club de Noveleras, the first official club for fans of the Telemundo broadcast network's mainstay programming of telenovelas -- the popular serialized dramas, which run in weeks-long blocks in prime time, Mondays through Fridays.
Telenovelas, also called novelas, are replete with over-the-top plot devices like evil twins, amnesia and manly mustachioed millionaires on horseback. (''Noveleras'' means ''novela fans.'') Among recent Telemundo telenovelas are ''El Clon'' (''The Clone'') and ''La Reina del Sur'' (''The Queen of the South'').
The introduction of the Web site clubdenoveleras.com represents the national start of the club, which had previously been active with events in local Telemundo markets that enabled fans to meet the stars of their favorite shows.
The Web site is the result of a collaboration among L'Oreal USA, Telemundo and the New York office of Moxie Interactive, which is the digital agency of record for L'Oreal USA. There is also a mobile version of the Web site. The content of clubdenoveleras.com, most of it entirely in Spanish, includes video clips, photographs, articles and a beauty blog. Visitors can also interact with other ardent admirers of telenovelas as well as join a loyalty program that gives out points for activities like watching videos and clicking on the L'Oreal USA product ads on the site.
The points can be redeemed for prizes like autographed photos of novela stars; ''saludos,'' or pretaped greetings from stars; Telemundo merchandise; and L'Oreal USA beauty products.
There is a feature on clubdenoveleras.com listing the five members with the most points. As of Monday morning, the leader, who goes by the name El--Pavo--Real (The Peacock), had 1,960 points.
The partnership between L'Oreal USA and Telemundo is among several efforts being made by the latter, whose broadcast network competes fiercely against the leader, Univision, part of Univision Communications.
For instance, Telemundo signed licensing agreements last year with manufacturers of products like jewelry, clothing and home decor merchandise, which are sold to shoppers as well as integrated into episodes of telenovelas.
The goal of introducing the Web site is ''to go beyond events'' in the local markets, says Jacqueline Hernandez, chief operating officer at the New York office of the Telemundo Communications Group, and offer telenovela aficionados something that ''can go 365 days, 24/7.''
''We're creating a community,'' she adds, ''a virtual community online'' that will ''turn viewership into a relationship.''
Telemundo is ''asking our consumers to lean in,'' Ms. Hernandez says, by visiting the site, becoming a member and connecting with other members, along with giving them the option ''whenever they comment to link to Facebook and Twitter, so their friends in those universes can start interacting and engaging.''
''It's novela fantasy league,'' she adds.
Indeed, Ms. Hernandez says, she, too, has become a member of the Web site, signing up under the screen name Juacqunia.
She has already accumulated 10 points, she adds.
When it comes to the Telemundo audience, ''beauty is just as hot as novelas,'' Ms. Hernandez says, adding that L'Oreal has been ''a wonderful long-term partner of ours'' in advertising on properties like the Telemundo network.
According to Kantar Media, a unit of WPP, L'Oreal spent $9.8 million to advertise with Telemundo in 2007, $9.6 million in 2008, $7.6 million in 2009 and $11.1 million last year.
The financial terms of the Web site partnership are not being disclosed. The agreement is for a year, after which time L'Oreal USA and Telemundo will assess how clubdenoveleras.com has done.
''We spent a lot of time defining what success would look like,'' Mr. Speichert says, among them the number of fans who decide to become subscribers.
L'Oreal USA is also discussing with Telemundo the possibility of integrating products into the telenovelas and other programs on the network, he adds.
''This is the first time we're creating such a platform,'' Mr. Speichert says of the initiative. ''There are a lot of things that are innovative and new, a lot of experimentation.''
''We'll learn as we go,'' he adds.
One element that is not experimental is the emphasis on video content, social media and mobile access.
According to statistics that have been gathered by Moxie Interactive, which is part of the Zenith Media Services of the Publicis Groupe, Hispanic users of the Internet, particularly those who speak mostly Spanish or are bilingual, are more involved with online video and social networks than the overall population.
They also rely on mobile devices for information about potential purchases more than non-Hispanic shoppers, the data indicate.
The Web site is intended as ''kind of a hub for all things socially connected to these shows,'' says Joel Lunenfeld, chief executive at Moxie Interactive, based in the Atlanta headquarters.
''There are a lot of really cool trends we brought together,'' he adds.
Mr. Lunenfeld joins his client, Mr. Speichert, in describing the initiative as something new.
''We're learning what fans opting in like,'' Mr. Lunenfeld says, ''and we can see trends in real time.''
Also, ''we're creating content as a brand,'' he adds.
One example is the beauty blog, called Nuestro Blog (Our Blog), which is being written by Johanna Torres, who had previously been the editor in chief of a magazine aimed at Spanish-speaking readers, Siempre Mujer (Always a Woman).
Also to that end, Ms. Hernandez says, clubdenoveleras.com will soon start polling members of the site, ''asking beauty questions and novela questions, gathering information, and L'Oreal will have this information 100 percent proprietarily.''
The Web site is being advertised in multiple outlets that are part of NBCUniversal, in what is known as cross-promotion.
Given the competition between Telemundo and Univision, it is not surprising that Univision is also trying to woo makers of beauty and personal-care products to buy more commercial time and advertising space on its networks and Web sites.
Univision recently released the results of a survey of Hispanic men on their attitudes about and use of personal care products. The study bore the cheeky title ''Why Latinos Look So Good.''
Other media like Yahoo are also letting marketers know about programs they offer to reach Hispanic consumers.
-------
If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com. And read coverage anytime of advertising, marketing, television, print, movies and new media on the Media Decoder blog at mediadecoder.blogs.nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (75%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); COSMETICS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); WEB SITES (64%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (63%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%)

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (95%); COMCAST CORP (82%); L'OREAL USA INC (82%)

TICKER: OR (PAR) (95%); OR (BIT) (95%); CMCSA (NASDAQ) (82%); CCV (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



665 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Libyan Rebels Aim to Revive Oil Exports

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- After seizing control of critical oil fields and terminals in eastern Libya over the weekend, Libyan rebels are now trying to sell oil in international markets, potentially raising hundreds of millions of dollars to buy weapons and supplies.
Oil industry officials, echoing claims made by a rebel leader, said Monday that they believed that Qatar had agreed to buy oil offered by the rebels and planned to ship it in leased tankers. 
The Qatari government has not commented on the oil sales, but on Monday, Qatar became the first Arab country to formally recognize the legitimacy of the rebels as representatives of Libya. In addition, the recent military advances by the rebels were made possible by allied air support as well as critical logistical commitments from Qatar.
''There clearly appears to be some coordination, and money can buy you a lot,'' said Michael A. Levi, a senior fellow for energy and the environment at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''My guess is this will be more consequential for the conflict than for the oil markets.''
Over the last few days, the rebels have seized several towns with important oil installations that they said would enable them to produce and export crude. Although there is concern that the rebel advance may prove to be fleeting, oil traders responded to their victories by pushing down the price of most world oil benchmarks, albeit modestly.
On Monday, the price of the benchmark United States crude oil, West Texas Intermediate, fell by $1.48 a barrel, or 1.4 percent, to $103.92. The benchmark is 7.3 percent higher than it was a month ago, and 30 percent higher than a year ago.
Although the Libyan government faces global economic sanctions and asset freezes, an official at the Treasury Department said that the United States would not seek to block oil sales by the rebels if they could prove the money was not going to any Libyan government authority, the national oil company or the Qaddafi family.
''Everything owned by or controlled by the government of Libya is subject to sanctions,'' said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because no official determination had been made about the proposed oil sales. ''Anything that is not is not governed by U.S. sanctions.''
According to news reports, the rebels claimed they would be able to produce up to 130,000 barrels of crude a day, less than a tenth of what Libya exported before turmoil erupted last month.
But they also have access to millions of barrels stored in coastal oil terminals, which have been effectively closed to tanker traffic during the conflict. The rebels now control all five eastern oil export terminals, including Es Sider, Ras Lanuf and Zueitina, roughly two-thirds of the country's export capacity and a majority of its production and refining capacity, according to a research note by the Eurasia Group, a consultancy firm.
Francois Gauthier, the Algeria country manager for the Italian energy company Enel, estimated that there could be as many as two million barrels of oil stored in just one rebel-controlled oil port, Tobruk, that could be exported quickly. At an estimated sale price of $100 a barrel, selling the oil in Tobruk could raise as much as $200 million, although the rebels would probably have to share the funds with Western oil companies that co-own the leases on the fields.
''It's a lot of cash, but it won't solve all of their problems over the long run,'' Mr. Gauthier said.
Libyan oil is particularly valued on world markets because it is high quality, needs little refining and is particularly well suited for European diesel markets.
With allied planes and naval vessels patrolling the area, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi could be powerless to stop tankers from sailing into and out of Tobruk and other rebel-held ports. However, forces loyal to Colonel Qaddafi could still sabotage critical pumping equipment needed to transport oil from the fields to the ports.
The rebels already have their own oil company, Agoco, which is based in rebel-held Benghazi and broke away from the main national oil company early in the conflict. Agoco controls fields that represent 40 percent of the country's 1.6 million barrels a day of output and operates an oil terminal and refinery in Tobruk.
Aside from a few refinery storage tanks, little of Libya's oil infrastructure has been damaged in the fighting so far. The pumps, hoses, metering, docks and storage tanks at the ports are intact, and the oil fields are ready to be pumped by local oil workers, according to oil experts.
''It's only a question of flipping switches,'' said Michael C. Lynch, president of Strategic Energy and Economic Research, a consultancy firm.
Details of the dealings between the rebels and the Qataris remain unclear, but several oil industry experts said the Qataris or the United Nations could place money from any Libyan oil sales in an escrow fund that would later reimburse Italian, French, Spanish and American oil companies that have investments in the Libyan oil fields. Those companies include Eni, Repsol, Total and Occidental Petroleum.
''The companies' attitude may be 'Don't worry, we'll settle up later,' '' said Mr. Lynch, who has broad experience in international oil markets. ''This is a good way for the companies to get on the rebels' good side.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A cloud of black smoke from a burning oil storage facility in the refinery at Ras Lanuf in Libya stretched over 50 miles west. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (87%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); QATAR (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



666 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ALBANY MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Power Broker Is Confounded In Budget Fight

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Standing last week before a closed-door meeting of the Assembly Democrats he has led for the better part of two decades, Sheldon Silver laid out the grim reality.
The hospitals and health care unions, the Democrats' traditional allies in the annual budget fight, had abandoned them. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo would offer no additional money for schools and senior centers and no income tax surcharge on the wealthy. If they refused his terms, Mr. Cuomo would wield his emergency budget powers to ram through even steeper cuts. And if they forced a government shutdown, Mr. Silver explained, it would be the widely reviled Legislature -- not the popular governor -- that would be blamed.
Take the deal, Mr. Silver urged.
''It was like the general calling in his colonels and telling them he was going to surrender,'' said one lawmaker who insisted on anonymity because caucus meetings are meant to be confidential. 
For years, through Republican and Democratic governors alike, Mr. Silver has been Albany's most enduring center of power. Understated and tenacious, politely elusive and maddeningly patient, Mr. Silver has endured the slings of good-government groups and the arrows of tabloid editorial pages to defend the interests of his members and their allies and to bend Albany to his will.
But as the Legislature prepares to vote on the state's most austere budget in more than two decades, Mr. Silver suddenly finds himself diminished, leading a depleted Democratic caucus that is more politically isolated than at any time in years. And he has found himself in the formidable shadow of Mr. Cuomo, the freshman Democratic governor who has reinvigorated an office already vested with considerable powers.
''I don't think you get realignments in one year,'' said James R. Tallon Jr., a former Assembly majority leader who is now president of the United Hospital Fund. ''But I've rarely seen any governmental leader in Albany play a better three-month cycle than Governor Cuomo has played.''
In years past, Mr. Silver deployed his own well-worn playbook, famous for his gnomic utterances, his refusal to commit to positions in advance and his willingness to wait out governors until they were desperate for a deal, any deal.
A close alliance with powerful labor unions, particularly teachers and health care workers, provided Assembly Democrats an effective and well-financed political communications arm in their battles with the governor. An impregnable majority -- Assembly Democrats control roughly two-thirds of the chamber's 150 seats -- helped insulate them from any political tides that roiled national and state politics.
But those strengths proved less useful against a popular and aggressive governor buoyed by ever-rising public anger against Albany and constrained by the stark reality of the state's dire finances. Wooed by Mr. Cuomo's early invitation to partner with him on cutting Medicaid, the health care industry spent March advertising enthusiastic support for Mr. Cuomo's budget rather than angry opposition. The governor's threat to force even deeper cuts on the Legislature using his emergency powers, along with the low likelihood of a quick economic rebound, made delaying tactics pointless.
Meanwhile, a growing number of Assembly Democrats had begun to share Mr. Cuomo's view that state spending had spiraled out of control. Publicly, Mr. Cuomo offered the Legislature political redemption, if it joined him to enact budget cuts. Many lawmakers seem poised to accept, with gratitude.
''Speaking for myself, I think that I work very hard and believe in the things that I work for,'' said Assemblyman Kenneth Zebrowski, a Rockland County Democrat. ''When the institution that you work hard in is consistently criticized as nonfunctioning -- and that means people don't believe you're doing your job -- it wears on you.''
Mr. Silver has long resisted the notion of being a legislative potentate, let alone a protector of budget bloat or a guardian of Albany's status quo. Mr. Silver, in an interview on Monday, suggested that the budget deal, far from marking a loss for him, was a win-win outcome for his members, for the governor and for New Yorkers.
''The fact is that we acted responsibly, recognizing we lost $7 billion in federal stimulus money, that the economy did not grow significantly enough to warrant significant increases in expenditures,'' Mr. Silver said. He noted that the $132.5 billion budget outlined by Mr. Cuomo on Sunday was just half a billion dollars less than the one-house budget the Assembly passed this month. And he rattled off a long list of provisions -- additional school aid; the defeat of a cap on medical malpractice awards; money for community colleges, senior centers and summer programs -- that Mr. Cuomo had agreed to.
''I think there was just a general feeling that we want to deal with reality, that dealing with it in April or in May or in June is not going to change reality,'' Mr. Silver said. ''There's not going to be a groundswell of revenue coming into the state changing the picture. There was no advantage or reason to delay making the tough decisions.''
By far the biggest change in Albany's power equation was Mr. Cuomo himself. Wielding carrots along with sticks, Mr. Cuomo personally cultivated lawmakers who might be tempted to criticize him publicly and even offered administration appointments to Silver loyalists.
Soon after taking office, Mr. Cuomo lured one of Mr. Silver's top aides, Sabrina M. Ty, to his administration to handle legislative affairs, a job in which her years of institutional knowledge and close relationships with Assembly lawmakers were put to Mr. Cuomo's own uses. Last month, Mr. Cuomo named Assemblyman Darryl C. Towns, an influential Brooklyn Democrat and former chairman of the Legislature's black and Latino caucus, to a plum job as chief executive of the state's Housing Finance Agency.
But the shifting terrain in the Senate also mattered. During the later years of the Pataki administration, Mr. Silver and the unions crafted an alliance with Senate Republicans to resist cuts to schools and health care. During the two-year stretch when a fractious Democratic majority held the Senate and federal stimulus money filled state coffers, Mr. Silver became virtually unstoppable, driving Gov. David A. Paterson and the Senate to enact billions in extra expenditures and an income tax on the wealthy.
Under Mr. Cuomo, however, Mr. Silver has been forced to contend with a restored Republican majority more willing to accept cuts to schools and health care. Dean G. Skelos, the Senate majority leader, also sided with Mr. Cuomo to block the ''millionaires' tax.''
But Mr. Silver has endured lean times before, most notably during the first two years under Gov. George E. Pataki, who forced the Assembly to accept tax cuts on the wealthy and an overhaul to state welfare programs that many Democratic lawmakers abhorred. As the years passed, Mr. Pataki's popularity ebbed, while Mr. Silver's strength grew.
By acceding to Mr. Cuomo's demands now, Mr. Silver may be setting the stage for a rebound, harnessing the governor's popularity to help refurbish the Legislature's tarnished image and enhance lawmakers' political standing in the long term.
''The new governor holds the commanding heights,'' said Robert B. Ward, deputy director of the Rockefeller Institute, a research center. ''The role for the Legislature often is to wait out a governor -- and certainly the speaker has proven he's a master of that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The State Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, faces a depleted Democratic caucus and a popular governor, Andrew M. Cuomo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A28) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); CELEBRITIES (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



667 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Chief Judge Says Deal Will Require Hundreds of Layoffs in Court System

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN; Javier C. Hernandez contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ALBANY -- As the state's budget deadline approached, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo held firm on his position that the state must reduce its spending and reject any major new taxes, while leaders of the State Legislature continued to insist on hundreds of millions of dollars in relief from the governor's proposed budget cuts.
In the end, both Mr. Cuomo and the Legislature got what they wanted -- in part, at least, at the expense of the branch of government that was not in the room. 
The budget deal that Mr. Cuomo and lawmakers announced on Sunday restored about $480 million that the governor proposed two months ago to cut from areas like education and human services. But the budget's total spending increased by only $250 million, thanks in large part to a $170 million cut to the state's court system.
The state's chief judge, Jonathan Lippman, said on Monday that the reduction in financing would require hundreds of layoffs -- at least -- and would include courthouse personnel, not only back-office staff, though court officials would not be specific about the kinds of workers who might be let go.
''It will have a tremendous impact on the system,'' Judge Lippman said in a telephone interview. ''At a minimum, you're going to see delays in the administration of justice, without question.''
Judge Lippman was one of many officials around the state, in government and elsewhere, who scrambled to take stock of the state's budget deal, which Mr. Cuomo announced in a triumphant ceremony at the Capitol on Sunday that was filled with grinning faces but was sparse on details.
The cuts to the court system, which has about 15,500 employees, came two months after Mr. Cuomo chastised the judicial branch for not agreeing to a 10 percent reduction in spending that he imposed on state agencies. (Mr. Cuomo also cut his own budget 10 percent, as did the state comptroller and the attorney general.)
A month ago, Judge Lippman submitted a revised budget that would cut $100 million in spending, or about 4 percent, from the $2.7 billion he had requested, an amount roughly unchanged from the past year's budget. The $170 million cut will equal about 6 percent.
Mr. Cuomo and the legislative leaders settled on the larger figure so that the court system would shoulder ''a more proportionate share of the state's reductions,'' Josh Vlasto, a spokesman for the governor, said.
Judge Lippman said he did not know whether the additional cut would force the closing of any courthouses. He also was not sure whether he would still be able to increase state financing for lawyers to represent the poor in cases dealing with foreclosures, child support and other civil matters. At the Capitol, meanwhile, lawmakers continued on Monday to negotiate on the finer points of the budget, including the portions of the spending plan dealing with health care and education.
It remained unclear how most of about $270 million in restored education financing would be distributed around the state. Officials said it might not be until Thursday -- the deadline for the Legislature to approve the budget -- that a breakdown of which districts would get how much aid would be available.
Lawmakers would say only that the added school financing would be spread around the state and would go in large part to what are considered to be the neediest districts. ''It's a work in progress,'' said Assemblywoman Catherine Nolan, a Democrat from Queens and the chairwoman of the Assembly's Education Committee.
Lawmakers also faced criticism from other corners over the budget deal. The Medical Society of the State of New York rescinded its endorsement of Mr. Cuomo's plan to overhaul Medicaid because a provision to limit so-called pain-and-suffering awards in medical malpractice cases was removed from the budget as part of the deal announced on Sunday.
The society's president, Dr. Leah S. McCormack, said that doctors felt ''betrayed'' by the removal of the malpractice cap. Mr. Cuomo also faced criticism from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who called the budget deal an ''outrage'' and said its cuts would disproportionately fall on the city, even though the city serves as an economic catalyst for the rest of the state.
''We are the jewel of the financial crown, if you will, in New York State,'' Mr. Bloomberg said after a City Hall news conference. ''We're the one that's generating the money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jonathan Lippman, at left, the state's chief judge, said that a budget cut ''will have a tremendous impact on the system.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); JUDGES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (68%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); JONATHAN J JUDGE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



668 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; FINAL FOUR HOUSTON; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Alabama's Grant Has Foot on Two Final Four Stages

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
That dark Sunday night when his players gathered with high hopes in the C. M. Newton Room at Coleman Coliseum, when they learned that 21 victories and first place in the Southeastern Conference's Western Division were not enough to please the almighty N.C.A.A. tournament selection committee, Anthony Grant's range of emotions could have stretched from Tuscaloosa, Ala., to Richmond, Va.
First, Grant, the second-year Alabama coach, had to watch JaMychal Green and the others storm out and scatter, angry and tearful. Then he had to deal with his own acute sense of deflation. He shook his head and wondered what he would say when he gathered his players later. He knew one thing: he would not waste his breath on unhelpful bitterness. 
He would not howl about how his team had beaten the N.C.A.A.-invited teams Kentucky, Tennessee and Georgia (twice). He would not compare Alabama's record with those of others selected for the tournament, and he would especially avoid mimicking the exasperated television experts and cry, ''Virginia Commonwealth?''
How could Grant, of all people, a former V.C.U. coach, question the credentials of the team that was destined to become another Butler (its national semifinal opponent Saturday in Houston), another midmajor on the verge of something momentous?
How could Grant besmirch and begrudge an opportunity for the very players he recruited?
''I don't think anybody that achieves any level of success gets there by wishing something bad for someone else,'' he said Monday at a news conference for the National Invitation Tournament semifinal teams in Midtown Manhattan. ''For what those V.C.U. kids have accomplished, it's a feeling of great pride. I think it's a great story.''
At 44, Grant can almost at first glance still pass for the Dayton forward he was in the mid-1980s, before he began an extensive dues-paying journey with a high school coaching job in Miami and continued with assistant's positions at Stetson, Marshall and Florida.
After Grant's V.C.U. team upset Duke in the tournament's first round when he was a rookie head coach in 2007, people took note of the way he carried himself. He also impressed many with his impeccable appearance, described by Green -- one of Grant's Crimson Tide co-stars with Tony Mitchell -- as a man who never appears in public without his ''church slacks.''
To his credit, Grant on Monday answered every question related to his former team and not to Alabama's N.I.T. semifinal Tuesday night at Madison Square Garden against Colorado, another deserving team curiously leapfrogged into the big tournament by V.C.U. Grant never rolled his eyes or barked his displeasure, though after a run of about six in a row on the subject of V.C.U., he did laugh and say, ''I'm the coach at Alabama.''
He has been around long enough to know the score on this strange and seductive turn of events.
''If you look at this tournament, outside of U.N.L.V. in the '80s, George Mason a few years ago, Butler, and now V.C.U., it's very rare that you see teams from the non-B.C.S. conferences get a chance to do what those guys have done,'' Grant said.
What did it all mean? He called it a commentary on a college basketball culture that rewards teams that are capable of keeping their upperclassmen while the blue chips do the one-and-done blow-by. He said it was a tribute to a ''group of kids playing for each other, coming together.'' No, he did not forget his successor, the 33-year-old, aptly named Shaka Smart, who played his college ball at Kenyon College in Ohio, a place more identified with deep liberal-arts thinkers than great crossover dribblers.
Like Grant at V.C.U., Smart was hired off Billy Donovan's Florida staff. ''Everything I've heard about him is that he's a very good guy, a very good coach,'' Grant said of Smart.
When parity meets single elimination, who knows what fate has in store? The way Steve Lavin re-emerged on the Coach Wonderful radar with Norm Roberts's players this season at St. John's, Smart will be deified for succeeding beyond V.C.U.'s wildest dreams with Grant's recruits: the seniors Joey Rodriguez, Jamie Skeen, Brandon Rozzell and the junior Bradford Burgess.
Grant has known Rodriguez since he was in grade school. ''His family is from Florida, where I was at the time, and he would come to our camps,'' Grant said. ''He won a state high school championship, was a winner from the first day he walked on campus.''
Skeen was recruited by Grant as a transfer from Wake Forest and sat out Grant's final year at V.C.U. ''He came in and impacted practice on a daily basis,'' he said. ''Happy to see him finish his career the way he is finishing.''
Meanwhile, Grant's message to his players when they reconvened late on Selection Sunday night was equally high-road. ''Don't let this define your season,'' he told them. ''Let's make New York our goal.''
Of all his players, only Green had stepped on the Garden floor, as a high school senior in the Jordan Brand Classic in 2008. One of his teammates that day was Brandon Jennings, who never played college ball and is now a star with the Milwaukee Bucks. Another player in that game was Connecticut's Kemba Walker, who has emerged from this year's N.C.A.A. tournament as the biggest (draft) winner of all given his 9-wins-in-19 days run of video-at-11 highlights.
The 6-foot-8 Green, meanwhile, had considered taking his 15.4 scoring and 7.7 rebounding averages into the N.B.A. draft this June. But after the Tide beat Miami last week in the N.I.T. quarterfinals, he changed his mind and informed Grant that he would be returning to Alabama.
Green approached Grant in the film room and said, ''Coach, I'm not ready to leave school this year.'' Grant smiled and hugged him tight. Emotions run high in the N.I.T., too.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The former V.C.U. coach Anthony Grant has watched the Rams' run to the Final Four from afar. Grant coaches Alabama, which went to the N.I.T. after failing to get an N.C.A.A. bid. Left, the Crimson Tide star JaMychal Green. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EARL WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROBERT SUTTON/THE TUSCALOOSA NEWS, VIA A.P.) GRAPHIC: Head of the Class: Three seniors were named men's first-team A.P. all-Americans on Monday, the most since four made the team in 2006. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHEASTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (84%); ST LOUIS RAMS (59%); BUTLER UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (88%); TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); MIAMI, FL, USA (67%) ALABAMA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



669 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: With Court Date Nearing, N.F.L. Faces Another Lawsuit

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
As lawyers for N.F.L. players filed their reply to the league's argument in preparation for next week's hearing on their antitrust lawsuit, a second antitrust lawsuit was filed against the league Monday by four retired players who are also hoping to force the end of the lockout.
The hearing in the first lawsuit, Tom Brady v. National Football League, is set for April 6 in a district court in Minneapolis. The players' reply, taken together with the league's brief last week, lays out the arguments that Judge Susan Richard Nelson will consider when she decides whether to grant the players' request for an injunction to stop the lockout. 
In their reply, the players' lawyers attack the league's contentions that courts are barred from issuing injunctions in labor disputes and that no decision on an injunction should be made before the National Labor Relations Board rules on the league's charge that the union's decertification is a sham.
The players' case hinges on whether the judge believes the players legitimately renounced their labor rights in favor of their antitrust rights with the decertification, and whether she thinks it is within the court's jurisdiction to decide that. It argues that once the union is dissolved, there is no reason for the court to allow antitrust violations to continue, that the court has exclusive jurisdiction to decide the applicability of antitrust law and that the right of workers not to unionize is absolute and is not akin -- as the league's brief had said of the union's decertification -- to ''turning off a light switch.''
The reply reads: ''Defendants do not contend that their 'lockout' is a per se unlawful group boycott and price-fixing agreement in violation of antitrust law.
''Defendants respond that their conduct should be immune from antitrust scrutiny based on the remarkable assertion that courts and the NLRB can force employees to unionize. This, and every one of the defendants' other arguments, has previously been rejected by the courts.''
It also says the public interest strongly favors the granting of the injunction because it fosters the policies of antitrust law. ''Communities, stadium workers and fans could then enjoy football without economic harm,'' the reply concludes.
The league spokesman Greg Aiello said: ''There are no surprises or arguments we did not expect. The union's lawyers still fail to come to terms with the jurisdictional principles that bar an injunction in this case.''
The second lawsuit, which includes the Hall of Fame defensive end Carl Eller and running back Priest Holmes, and represents retired and incoming players, also seeks an injunction to lift the lockout.
It argues that draft-eligible players who will not be drafted for another month are subject to antitrust violations by clubs because once they are drafted, they will immediately be locked out and will later be subject to a system with a salary cap, and limits on free agency, the lawyer Michael Hausfeld said.
Retired players contend that their benefits and pensions are at risk if the lockout lingers.
''Given the fact the union decertified, there are three separate interests now,'' Hausfeld said of incoming, current and former players. ''The first and third of those interests want to have their own voice, because they are not covered by the defense raised by owners. Owners say you can't decertify, you're still a union. Our response is, these two groups were not part of the union, so a lockout was a clear antitrust violation.''
Hausfeld said he would file papers Tuesday seeking the injunction to block the lockout, but the lawsuit he has filed seeks no damages.
The N.F.L. said Monday night it would not comment because its lawyers had not had an opportunity to review the new lawsuit.
But even as the sides prepared to meet in court next week, the players association announced a series of events surrounding next month's draft that will not overlap with the draft.
The players association had floated the idea of holding an event directly opposite the draft, and some current players have been outspoken in wondering why top prospects would want to participate in the nationally televised draft festivities during a lockout, which includes many of the top players selected shaking hands with and receiving a hat and a jersey from Commissioner Roger Goodell.
On Monday, the players' spokesman George Atallah said the association was not asking prospects or agents to boycott the draft.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (94%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LOCKOUTS (90%); JURISDICTION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); INJUNCTIONS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PRICE FIXING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CARTELS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (76%); SPORTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); SPORTS FANS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



670 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1824 words

HEADLINE: 3-Month Nightmare Emerges in Rape Inquiry

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY and ERICA GOODE

 BODY:
CLEVELAND, Tex. -- A year ago, the 11-year-old girl who the police say was the victim of repeated gang rapes in this East Texas town was an outgoing honor roll student, brimming with enthusiasm, who went on hikes and planted trees with a youth group here.
''She has always been a really bubbly child,'' said Brenda Myers, director of the Community and Children's Impact Center, who worked with her. ''She always had a smile on her face.''
But in October, just after starting sixth grade, the girl became withdrawn, Ms. Myers said, and in November, she stopped attending the center's meetings. 
What happened during those months is the subject of a criminal investigation that has sent waves of shock and sorrow through this impoverished town and has provoked anger across the nation.
The police say the girl was raped on at least six occasions, from Sept. 15 to Dec. 3. Nineteen boys and men, ages 14 to 27, have been charged in connection with the rapes, the most recent arrest last Wednesday.
Court documents and dozens of interviews over several weeks with the girl's family, her friends and neighbors, as well as those who know the defendants, provide a more complete picture of what occurred as well as a deeper portrait of the victim. What begins to emerge is the nightmarish ordeal of a young girl over two and a half months involving an eclectic group of young men, some with criminal records, who shared a powerful neighborhood bond.
In his first interview, with The New York Times, the father of the girl, a 57-year-old carpenter named Juan, said he became aware of his daughter's abuse in late November, when she arrived home at 3 or 4 a.m. after having slipped out without permission. She was shaking and weeping when her mother opened the door to their small white frame house, he said, and she immediately closed herself in her room.
Later in the day, she told her mother she had been raped after her parents found sexually explicit photos that had been sent to her father's cellphone, which she had been using. She told her father that the men had threatened to kill her.
Juan, whose last name is being withheld to protect his daughter's identity, said his wife reported the crime to the police three days later, but in court documents the Cleveland Police Department said it was first alerted on Dec. 3 by school authorities.
Juan said his daughter had been a bright and easygoing girl, adept at schoolwork. As she reached puberty, he said, she had grown tall for her age and had begun to talk about wanting to be a fashion model. Yet she was still a child; her bed was piled high with stuffed animals. ''Her mind is a child's mind,'' he said. ''That's what makes me so angry.''
The arrests have raised fundamental questions about how a girl might have been repeatedly abused by many men and boys in a tightly knit community without any adult intervening, or even seeming to register that something was amiss, until sexually explicit videos of the victim began circulating in local schools.
''It wasn't that anyone was asleep,'' said the Rev. Travis Hulett Jr., the pastor of the New Bethel Missionary Baptist Church, which anchors the Precinct 20 neighborhood where most of the defendants live. ''You can be awake and see things and still not do anything.''
The Cleveland police and the local district attorney have released little information about the alleged rapes and the evidence, and their silence has allowed rumor and speculation to flourish. Judge Mark Morefield of State District Court issued a broad order two weeks ago prohibiting law enforcement officials, defense lawyers, potential witnesses and relatives of the girl and defendants from speaking about the case to reporters.
According to court documents, the police seized the telephones of three men arrested, and the father of the girl said his family's phones and computer were taken for evidence, as well. Eighteen defendants have pleaded not guilty; the 19th has yet to be arraigned.
The police interviewed the girl in early December, after school security officials heard rumors about sexually explicit videos circulating among the students. Then an elementary school student told a school employee she had seen pictures of the girl having sex with two young men, one of them a high school basketball star.
The girl, a sixth grader whose parents are immigrants from Mexico, told investigators that one of the defendants called her on Sunday, Nov. 28, during the Thanksgiving break, and asked if she wanted ''to ride around,'' according to four police search warrant affidavits.
That defendant, Eric B. McGowen, 19, who was on probation for burglary, and two other male teenagers picked her up at her house, and took her to a house in Precinct 20, the affidavits said. The wooded community is a hodgepodge of small houses, trailers and churches, bordered on two sides by railroad tracks and on a third by a prison. Everyone is related by blood or friendship.
The girl was taken to a blue house with white trim and a heart-shaped welcome sign -- a house with a troubled history. The head of the household, Rayford T. Ellis, has a long criminal record and is a registered sex offender; one of his sons, Authur Ellis, 27, was arrested this year on murder charges. Neither man is charged in this case.
The police say a younger son, Rayford T. Ellis Jr., 19, an iron worker known as Mookie, shot and killed a teenager at the same house in August 2008. The younger Rayford Ellis was awaiting trial on manslaughter charges when he was arrested in early February on charges that he had raped the girl. (He has fathered at least five children with four young women, according to paternity suits.)
It is unclear from the affidavits if the younger Mr. Ellis was there the night of Nov. 28. But the girl said that a cousin, Timothy D. Ellis, 19, was there, and ordered her to strip, telling her that he would ''have some girls beat her up'' and would not drive her home if she refused, the affidavits said.
The affidavits said the girl told investigators that she then ''engaged in sexual intercourse and oral sex'' with several of the men present, among them Jared G. McPherson, 18, a high school basketball player, and Jared L. Cruse, also 18, who has since been charged with robbing a grocery store in the next county.
During the sexual assault, the girl said, she heard Mr. McGowen call someone on the phone and invite him to the house to have sex with her, the affidavits said. Four more men whom she did not know arrived.
The assault was interrupted when Timothy Ellis's aunt arrived at the house, the affidavits said, and the men took the girl out a back window to a squalid abandoned trailer a block away, where the sexual attack continued. Her underwear was left behind.
According to indictments, one man accused of participating was Kelvin R. King, 21, who was out on bond while awaiting trial on rape and robbery charges. Another was Marcus A. Porchia, 26, who worked at a local mental health clinic. Yet another, Isaiah R. Ross, 21, the son of a local school board member, was also present at the Nov. 28 rape, according to a search warrant affidavit for his telephone.
The November assault was not isolated, court documents say. Mr. King's brother, Xavier M. King, 17, and Devo Shaun Green, 20, are accused of raping the girl on Sept. 15. Mr. McGowen and two others -- Jamarcus N. Napper, 18, and Cedric DeRay Scott, 27 -- are charged with sexually assaulting her on Oct. 25. Carlos B. Ligons, 22, is charged with sexually assaulting her on Dec. 1. The last indictment, released Monday, accuses Walter J. Harrison, 26, of raping her on Dec. 1 and Dec. 3. The police released no details about those episodes.
Four of the defendants are charged with continuous sexual abuse of a young child. The rest are charged with a single count of aggravated sexual assault of a child under 14. Both felonies carry a sentence of 25 years to life in prison. In Texas, a child under 17 cannot give legal consent and, as in most states, ignorance of a child's age is not a legal defense.
Bertha Cleveland, an aunt of Mr. Cruse, said her nephew went to church regularly, held down a job at McDonald's and had told her he intended to go to college. ''Our younger generation is running rampant,'' she said. ''The devil is in full control.''
Residents of Precinct 20 were torn between condemning the crime and defending the young men. Several expressed doubt that all of them were guilty. The grandmother of Mr. Napper said he was out of town at the time of the assaults.
Xavier King, a high school student accused in the Sept. 15 rape, told The New York Times that he did not know the girl and that he thought he had been arrested because ''the people I hang with probably said my name, and if they go down, I go down with them.''
The small house where the girl lived is on a dusty road on the outskirts of town, about 10 miles from Precinct 20. There were chickens in the yard and a trampoline out front, where her father sometimes slept during the afternoons. She lived there with her parents, two older sisters who were in high school and a younger brother.
A 36-year-old cousin of the girl, who lived next door, said her family was in dire economic straits since Juan stopped working. The water and electricity had been cut off at times in recent months.
The house is empty now. Two weeks ago, the family moved to another town after detectives told the parents that they were in danger, Juan said.
The father said he had been worried about his daughter's safety for months before the assaults. She had been sneaking out of the house two or three nights a week, he said, climbing out a bedroom window. Some nights she would come home as late as 11 p.m. or midnight, saying she had visited girlfriends. He said he and his wife had scolded her almost daily.
Both parents are plagued with health problems. Juan injured his back in November 2009 and has not held a steady job since. A diabetic, he receives disability checks of $700 a month. His wife, 42, was told last year that she had a mass in her brain, and a doctor had said it should be removed, friends said. She suffers frequent headaches and fainting spells.
Yet she put off surgery and continued to work at night at a cashier at an underground gambling parlor, friends said. ''She wasn't interested in living,'' said Maria Luisa Lopez, a longtime friend. ''She felt very sad.''
Two months ago, when the arrests started, the state Child Protective Services placed the girl, who had also received threats, in a foster home. ''They told her it was best that they take her away from this town,'' Ms. Lopez said.
A case worker has informed Juan that he and his wife must attend family therapy sessions to regain custody. Juan said he was despondent at the prospect of losing his daughter permanently. He said that she was doing well but that she was still fearful. ''You can see she's not happy,'' he said. Then he added, ''She will never recover from this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LEAVING HOME: The 11-year-old girl often came home, right, late at night, her father says.
A TROUBLED HOME: The initial assaults occurred in the Rayford T. Ellis home, the affidavits say.
 NO ONE HOME: Assaults of the girl are said to have continued in this abandoned trailer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); CHILDREN (76%); MEN (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



671 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: For Spike, Less Like a Guy, More Like a Man

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
A CABLE channel that has changed names and focus several times is being retooled again, in this instance to try reaching a somewhat older -- and more female -- audience.
The channel is Spike, part of the MTV Networks unit of Viacom, which since its founding in 1983 has also been known as the Nashville Network, the National Network, TNN and Spike TV. Spike is to stay Spike, but its programming, most recently seeking to appeal to men ages 18 to 34, is being broadened to reach men ages 18 to 49 -- the demographic group that most advertisers desire to reach.
Spike ranked 19th last year in cable advertising revenue, according to data compiled by the research firm SNL Kagan, ahead of channels like ABC Family and History but behind others like VH1, A&E, Comedy Central, Food Network, HGTV and Lifetime.
And Spike suffered large losses in certain types of viewership in the prime-time evening hours from September through December, according to a report from the RPA agency that analyzes Nielsen ratings data, in one instance falling to 20th place from ninth. 
The revamped Spike will also be aimed at women ages 18 to 49, who may have previously been deterred by the guy-centric, fratty tone and attitude of the channel, which was exemplified by the double entendre in its slogan, ''Get some action.''
The slogan is disappearing from Spike's promotions and advertising, executives say, along with the more overt expressions of the so-called laddish behavior that the channel has celebrated. The executives, borrowing comparisons from another medium, say the new Spike will be less like Maxim magazine and more like Esquire.
''We don't want the women leaving the room when the guy's watching the stuff,'' said Jeff Lucas, who is the head of sales for the music and entertainment groups at MTV Networks in New York.
The new voice for Spike is emerging through work being produced by the channel's departments like programming, digital, marketing and sales, and through its partnership with a new New York agency, Co Collective. Viewers will see the initial changes in commercials on Spike for a new series, ''Coal,'' that begins on Wednesday, and for returning series like ''Auction Hunters'' and ''The Ultimate Fighter.''
The shifts at Spike come as members of the television industry, cable and broadcast alike get ready for their annual presentations to marketers. It is important for participants in those events -- known as the upfronts, because they begin before the start of the TV season -- to have good sales spiels as they compete against myriad other networks and channels for advertising dollars.
Spike executives have already been discussing the programming and promotional makeovers in meetings with advertising and media agencies. Other channels that have been talking or will soon talk to potential advertisers include Bravo, Cartoon Network, FX, Hallmark, the Hub, IFC, Nickelodeon, Ovation, Oxygen and Syfy.
As marketers worry about how the broadcast networks are struggling to keep viewers ages 18 to 49, Spike is ''positioning itself perfectly'' as an alternative, Mr. Lucas said.
The overhaul is also intended to help Spike add more dollars in categories in which it already does well, he added, like alcoholic beverages, automobiles, fast food, films and telecommunications.
The film category ''is not just about action movies,'' Mr. Lucas said, adding that the Hollywood studios ''don't live by men alone.''
Revising TV brands can be challenging because of the time it can take for viewers to realize that channels like Discovery Health has become OWN, short for the Oprah Winfrey Network; Court TV has become truTV; Discovery Home was made over into Planet Green; and Fine Living Network changed into Cooking Channel.
''There is nothing wrong with changing your focus,'' said Steve Sternberg, the longtime television research analyst who writes a blog, The Sternberg Report, but the trick in building a new audience base is ''getting more viewers to watch quickly than you lose.''
With Spike, he wrote in an e-mail, ''I would think it would take a couple of years before you could start to determine how successful the switch is.'' In a business that was based on speedy decisions even before Internet time, that can be confounding.
Additional risks were described by Ty Montague, co-chief executive at Co Collective: ''How do you expand the business without losing the clear focus on men and without diluting a brand that is so strong it stands out in people's minds?''
The answer, according to Mr. Montague, is not to ''walk away altogether'' from the more appealing qualities of guy-hood, like ''being a bit of a rogue, a bit of a risk-taker'' while also ''reframing the Spike story to talk about how a man is much more than a guy.''
''The goal is to have the brand begin to think of itself as a service,'' Mr. Montague said, ''helping men become more fully realized, better men'' -- men who watch shows that women may want to watch, too.
The term being used by Mr. Montague and the Spike executives to describe this approach is ''utilitainment,'' echoing words coined to describe TV genres like infotainment and edutainment.
''We want to be a bigger brand,'' said Niels Schuurmans, executive vice president for brand marketing and creative at Spike, one that is ''still talking to that male audience, but not necessarily the young guy.''
Series on Spike like ''Auction Hunters,'' ''Coal'' and ''The Ultimate Fighter'' feature working men ''trying to put food on the table,'' he added, a point that will be highlighted in promotional spots. One, for ''Coal,'' shows a miner declaring, ''I've got a family to provide for.''
Spike will spend $6 million to promote those series, Mr. Schuurmans said, which will make its debut in the next two weeks.
Coming reality series on Spike will also take that tack, Mr. Schuurmans said, citing ''Bar Rescue,'' about a consultant who helps failing bars; ''Car Boss,'' a consultant who helps failing auto dealerships; and ''Repo Games,'' which will offer owners of cars about to be repossessed a chance to avoid the dreaded repo man.
It is no coincidence that Spike is wooing older viewers after many younger men have been hit hard by the economy, ''displaced'' from jobs, Mr. Schuurmans said, and ''living at home'' again.
It is also no accident the courtship begins as more marketers come to believe that younger viewers are not the only ones who try new products and change brands.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Spike's new TV spots, like the one above, shun the more overt expressions of so-called laddish behavior of past promotions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MEN (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); WOMEN (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); WOMEN'S MARKET (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (75%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (58%); MTV NETWORKS INC (58%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (56%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



672 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Make It Clear and Concise. It's Not So Easy.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Teaching to the Text Message,'' by Andy Selsberg (Op-Ed, March 20):
Requiring students to compose a letter to the editor about any subject in the daily newspaper develops discipline that carries over into longer writing assignments. That's how I started my career as an education commentator. 
But the connection between clear thinking and succinct writing was expressed as early as 1657 by Blaise Pascal: ''I have made this letter longer than usual because I lack the time to make it short.''
WALT GARDNER Los Angeles, March 20, 2011
To the Editor:
''Teaching to the Text Message'' says students first need to write good sentences. True. But Andy Selsberg aims too low. Great writers create great messages, not eBay copy and Amazon reviews.
Take a sentence like ''Jesus wept,'' and let students learn the power of a short sentence by creating their own two-word sentences. Then turn to other great writers' sentences, ones by George Orwell, James Joyce or Robert Louis Stevenson -- examples from ''Classical Rhetoric for the Modern Student,'' by Edward P. J. Corbett. Mr. Corbett provides models by masters and imitations by students. My students' imitations often spawned creative paragraphs growing out of their opening sentences.
Many schools don't teach writing. Teachers find reading dozens of bad compositions dreadful and time-consuming. But reading a class's good writing can be exhilarating and less time-consuming. Great writing can't be taught. But good writing can be.
The national focus on scientific skills without also focusing on the effective use of English is disastrous. In the beginning is still the word.
J. WILLIAM DOWNS Suffern, N.Y., March 20, 2011
The writer taught English in public and private schools for 25 years.
To the Editor:
As a parent who is still getting used to the concept of e-mail instead of a handwritten note of thanks, I'll agree, grudgingly, with Andy Selsberg, the English teacher who eschews the long essay and instead rewards concision as an early writing skill. But I fear that our kids, for whom certain skills are already rewarded in preschool, may become a generation of students that finds it difficult ''to be economical and innovative with language.''
''A lot can be said with a little,'' and indeed, already is: today, our kids' earliest exposure to writing skills is through social chatter, where aphorism is fast reduced to acronym and where profundity like ILU (I love you) engenders the response ILU2, reward enough for the new Twitterati.
We are already bombarded by narrative shortcuts; long live the long essay!
JONATHAN ZINS Westport, Conn., March 21, 2011
To the Editor:
Irony is found in a seven-paragraph Op-Ed article written to argue against the standard five-paragraph essay and rather for two-sentence brevity to match the alleged skills needed in this new world of texts and Twitter messages. Andy Selsberg missed an opportunity to rise to this irony and make his argument in two sentences (or less).
KEVIN ABEL Alpharetta, Ga., March 20, 2011
To the Editor:
About Andy Selsberg's article about concise writing:
Excellent!
MITCHELL A. ADLER Irvington, N.Y., March 20, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER ARKLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



673 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Michigan, With Persistent Unemployment, Cuts Jobless Benefit by Six Weeks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Lizette Alvarez contributed reporting from Miami.

 BODY:
Michigan, whose unemployment rate has topped 10 percent longer than that of any other state, is about to set another record: its new Republican governor, Rick Snyder, signed a law Monday that will lead the state to pay fewer weeks of unemployment benefits next year than any other state.
Democrats and advocates for the unemployed expressed outrage that a such a hard-hit state will become the most miserly when it comes to how long it pays benefits to those who have lost their jobs. All states currently pay 26 weeks of unemployment benefits, before extended benefits paid by the federal government kick in. Michigan's new law means that starting next year, when the federal benefits are now set to end, the state will stop paying benefits to the jobless after just 20 weeks. The shape of future extensions is unclear. 
The measure, passed by a Republican-led Legislature, took advocates for the unemployed by surprise: the language cutting benefits next year was slipped quietly into a bill that was originally sold as way to preserve unemployment benefits this year.
The original bill was aimed at reducing unemployment fraud and making a technical change so the state's current long-term unemployed could continue receiving extended unemployment benefits from the federal government for up to 99 weeks -- benefits that would have been phased out next week without a change in the state law to make the unemployed in the state eligible to continue receiving benefits. Republican lawmakers amended it to cut the length of benefits starting in January.
''It turns the clock back 50 years at a time when unemployment is at historic highs since the Depression,'' Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said in an interview, adding that he worried that the state would set a precedent that would be followed by other states, including Florida, that are thinking of curtailing their unemployment programs. ''I think that Michigan should not be to unemployment insurance what Wisconsin has become to collective bargaining.''
But Republicans and business groups said that cutting benefits was necessary, because the unemployment trust fund, which was ill-prepared to cope with the recession, is insolvent. The state owes the federal government $4 billion that it borrowed to keep its program afloat, and unemployment taxes on businesses have already been raised, and will need to be raised more, to repay the money. The Michigan Chamber of Commerce called the new law ''a huge win for job providers,'' and said it could save up to $300 million a year.
Mr. Snyder issued a statement after signing the bill trumpeting the fact that it would preserve the extended benefits this year -- and making no mention of the fact that it would cut state benefits beginning next year. ''Snyder Signs Bill to Protect Unemployed,'' was the headline of the news release that his office sent out. ''Now that we have continued this safety net, we must renew our focus on improving Michigan's economic climate,'' he said in the statement.
Sara Wurfel, a spokeswoman for Mr. Snyder, said in an e-mail that he signed the bill because 35,000 Michiganders would have lost their extended benefits this week, and an additional 150,000 would have lost them by year's end, if the state's law had not been altered. She said that about 250,000 people collected more than 20 weeks of benefits in 2010.
Advocates for the unemployed called it a bad trade. ''We have a temporary change to help some jobless workers that is imposing an indefinite or permanent cost on future jobless workers,'' said Rick McHugh, a staff lawyer for the National Employment Law Project, which opposed the law. ''And that does seem doubly unfair when the temporary help for current jobless workers is almost totally paid for by the federal government.''
But business groups saw the state's need to change its unemployment law as an opportunity to make the cuts to benefits that they have long sought.
''The business community, the chamber included, were opposed to a one-sided benefits increase,'' said Wendy Block, the Michigan Chamber of Commerce's lobbyist responsible for health policy and human resources initiatives, and unemployment insurance. She said that while the extended benefits were currently paid for by the federal government, the money comes from a fund that is financed by federal unemployment taxes on employers. ''Employers will ultimately see higher federal unemployment taxes to pay for this,'' Ms. Block said.
More than half the states together owe the federal government more than $46 billion that they borrowed to pay for their unemployment programs during the downturn. Many states had salted away too little money in their unemployment trust funds during good times -- often because they cut taxes on employers -- and saw their funds depleted by the length and depth of the recession, and the slow pace at which businesses have begun hiring again. Now some other states are thinking about reducing unemployment benefits.
In Florida, where the unemployment rate hovers at 11.5 percent, even higher than Michigan's current rate of 10.4 percent, lawmakers are zeroing in on a similar bill. The Florida House also approved a bill this month to reduce the number of weeks unemployed workers could receive benefits to 20 weeks, from 26, and make it easier for businesses to deny benefits to applicants. A Senate bill takes a less stringent approach and does not cut the number of weeks workers can receive benefits. (It is unclear how the differences will be resolved.) Doing so would undo a consensus that emerged in the years after World War II that states should pay up to 26 weeks of unemployment benefits. And it would come as the average length of unemployment has risen.
Richard A. Hobbie, the executive director of the National Association of State Workforce Agencies, said ''at a time when long-term unemployment is worse than ever, it doesn't match up well with the trends in the labor market.''
One of the unemployed Michiganders who was warned that her extended benefits could run out next week without action was Melissa Barone, 42, who lost her job with a software company in August 2009, and has been collecting unemployment since then. She has gone back to school to train to be a nurse.
''Maybe what they need to do is look at giving businesses more incentives,'' Ms. Barone said, ''rather than taking from the guy that is unemployed and needs those funds.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Rick Snyder signed the new law on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); DISMISSALS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (61%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (60%); CORPORATE TAX (50%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (89%); SANDER M LEVIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



674 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Amber Waves to Ivory Bolls

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
SPEARMAN, Tex. -- Tight supplies of corn, soybeans and wheat have sent prices skyrocketing in the last year, prompting worries of a looming global food crisis.
In other years, American farmers have responded to high prices by devoting more land to staple food crops.
But this spring, many farmers in southern states will be planting cotton in ground where they used to grow corn, soybeans or wheat -- spurred on by cotton prices that have soared as clothing makers clamor for more and poor harvests crimp supply. 
The result is an acreage war between rival commodities used to feed and clothe the world's population.
''There's a lot more money to be made in cotton right now,'' said Ramon Vela, a farmer here in the Texas Panhandle, as he stood in a field where he grew wheat last year, its stubble now plowed under to make way for cotton. Around the first week of May, Mr. Vela, 37, will plant 1,100 acres of cotton, up from 210 acres a year ago. ''The prices are the big thing,'' he said. ''That's the driving force.''
Economists, agricultural experts and government officials are predicting that many farmers, both in the United States and abroad, will join Mr. Vela this year in chasing the higher profits to be made in cotton -- with consequences that could ripple across the globe.
''It's good for the farmer, but from a humanitarian perspective it's kind of scary,'' said Webb Wallace, executive director of the Cotton and Grain Producers of the Lower Rio Grande Valley. ''Those people in poor countries that have a hard time affording food, they're going to be even less able to afford it now.''
Myriad factors determine food prices. Ethanol demand has pushed up corn prices. Wheat prices rose last year when Russia banned exports after drought devastated its crop.
Farmers typically respond by increasing plantings of the most profitable crop. In the middle of the last decade, as food prices began to rise, cotton prices remained low, prompting farmers to switch from cotton to grains and other food crops. When corn prices jumped with ethanol demand in 2007, farmers grew much more corn.
This year, cotton prices are the highest they have been in years, luring farmers despite strong prices for other crops.
The United States Department of Agriculture predicted last month that southern farmers this spring would plant 12.8 million acres of upland cotton, the type that accounts for the vast majority of the crop. That is a 19 percent increase from last year, when farmers grew 10.8 million acres. It also predicted that the acreage for corn and wheat would grow, although the increases would be lower than they might have been without the competition from cotton. On Thursday, the department will release an updated forecast, based on a survey of farmers.
The effect of the cotton shift is expected to be magnified internationally, as farmers in other major cotton-producing countries, like Brazil, also respond to the high prices.
Cotton futures prices reached nearly $2.20 a pound this month on the ICE futures exchange in New York, up from $0.73 a pound last July. The price is expected to fall by harvest time, but farmers said they hoped to get close to $1 a pound.
In the United States, the economics of growing cotton vary according to many factors, including regional differences and whether or not the land is irrigated. Farmers in several southern states said that at a cotton price of about $1 a pound, their profit could be roughly $200 to $500 more per acre than they could earn growing corn or wheat. For 1,000 acres planted in cotton, that means an additional $200,000 to $500,000 profit.
''It's going to be cotton stalks everywhere,'' said Travis Patterson, 44, a farmer near Spearman, who was irrigating one of his fields on a recent afternoon with help from his son Zane, 12, in preparation for planting cotton. ''The landscape's going to change,'' he said, describing a countryside blanketed with the white of cotton rather than the more familiar green and gold of corn.
Mr. Patterson expects to plant 1,500 acres of cotton this year, up from 600 last year. He said the frenzy was so intense that even cattle ranchers were talking about growing cotton.
Farmers say they have no choice but to plant the crops that give them the best chance of making money. They face many uncertainties, and their profits can be wiped out by bad weather, rising costs for items like fertilizer, fuel or seed, or unstable crop prices, which can plummet as rapidly as they rise.
The National Cotton Council expects substantial increases in all cotton-growing states, including large jumps in North Carolina, Mississippi and TennesseeBut Texas is the nation's biggest cotton producer, and will have by far the biggest increase in acreage.
The shift is particularly noticeable in the Texas Panhandle, where cotton is a relative newcomer. Traditionally, the region was too far north and the growing season too short for cotton. But within the last decade, hardier varieties were introduced and slowly the crop caught on. One reason for cotton's growing popularity is that it takes far less water to grow than corn. Panhandle farmers tap into the Ogallala Aquifer, but that water source is being depleted and farmers face looming restrictions on water use.
So much cotton is going to be planted in the Panhandle this year -- some counties expect at least double the acreage -- that there has been talk of a shortage of seed for the most popular varieties.
''We've never seen anything like it,'' said Leighton R. Stovall, the general manager of the Moore County Gin, north of Dumas, Tex., a facility that cleans and bales newly harvested cotton. Workers at the gin are finishing the foundation of a new building, part of a $6.5 million expansion that will double the facility's capacity.
Mr. Stovall said the gin expected to clean cotton from 90,000 acres this year, twice what it handled last year. He said about 40 farmers who had not planted cotton before had told the gin they would raise the crop this year, many more new growers than in previous years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A cotton field in Dumas, Tex., above. Leighton Stovall, below, manager of the cotton gin in Dumas, with cotton seed. (B1)
The Moore County Cotton Gin in Dumas, Tex., which expects this year to double the amount of cotton it cleans, is expanding.
 ''The prices are the big thing. That's the driving force,'' said Ramon Vela, left, who plans to plant 1,100 acres in cotton, up from 210 acres a year ago. It takes far less water to grow cotton than corn, one reason for its increasing popularity in the Texas Panhandle. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT NAGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); WHEAT FARMING (90%); COTTON FARMING (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ALCOHOLS (78%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); WHEAT MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); APPAREL MFG (70%); ETHANOL (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



675 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'THE OTHER PLACE'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Confronting Illness and a Crumbling Life

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
A sense of disorientation unites audience and protagonist in ''The Other Place,'' a new drama by Sharr White about a forceful businesswoman confronting the onset of an illness whose nature keeps eluding her grasp. The play, which opened on Monday night at the Lucille Lortel Theater in an MCC Theater production, is dominated by a compelling, at times scarily intense performance from Laurie Metcalf.
Ms. Metcalf's Juliana Smithton narrates the story of the medical crisis that upends her life with an authority that invites our trust. Crisply dressed in smart corporate attire, she relates in clipped, unemotional tones the details of an ''episode'' at a convention in the Virgin Islands that has left her convinced that she has brain cancer. A biophysicist turned pharmaceutical pitchwoman, she became confused during her address to an audience of doctors: losing the thread of her speech, peculiarly fixated on an interloper in a yellow bikini, ultimately unable to form even simple sentences. 
Juliana's calamity comes at a painful time, as she informs the doctor (Aya Cash) she consults back in New York. Responding with prickly sensitivity to basic questions, she becomes contentious even on the subject of her name, and snaps out the information that her philandering husband is divorcing her.
In that case would she prefer that her maiden name be used? ''Well, I would, but it's Liffenberger,'' she grouses. ''How could I go back after Smithton; Juliana Smithton sounds like I was born with a tennis bracelet.''
Ms. Metcalf, the veteran of television's ''Roseanne'' who has profitably returned to her stage roots in the last decade or so, brings savory sardonic inflections to her performance as this tough-hided character. But while the dark humor remains a constant, Juliana's personality seems to shift from scene to scene, so that our perspective slowly evolves from one of innate sympathy (she's smart, funny and dying, with a cheating husband to boot!) to something more objective. Is she as stoic and sensible as she seems, or prey to paranoia, or are other factors at work?
Defensive and peremptory in her dealings with her doctor, Juliana is alternately reasonable and antagonistic at home with her husband, Ian Smithton (Dennis Boutsikaris), who happens to be an oncologist. (Not the last of the play's sometimes forced coincidences.) Juliana's take-no-prisoners tone melts into something more resembling beseeching need in her phone conversations with her estranged daughter, Laurel (also played by Ms. Cash). Neither Ian nor Juliana has spoken to Laurel in almost a decade, after she disappeared from their home as a 15-year-old in the company of one of Juliana's research assistants (John Schiappa, in a minuscule role).
Gradually our faith in this seemingly most reliable of narrators is undermined by deftly disclosed pieces of information positing a narrative at odds with Juliana's. Ian, whom Mr. Boutsikaris embodies with a grave sympathy tinged with exasperation, seems an equally trustworthy interpreter of the facts, and he gently begins poking holes in her diagnosis.
It would not be sporting to divulge much more about the play's revelations. Although ''The Other Place'' is fluidly directed by Joe Mantello, once the play has spilled its secrets, it loses some of its dramatic charge. After a climactic flashback scene, set at the family's Cape Cod summer home (of the title), another long scene follows, introducing a distracting extraneous character. (Ms. Cash again, doing a fine job of differentiating her three roles.) This extended passage also pushes the play a little too far in the direction of a weepy, disease-of-the-week television movie.
While they are economically and effectively drawn, the play's ancillary characters mostly just orbit the central Juliana, appearing in a couple of scenes and making it hard for us to engage emotionally with any of the relationships depicted. Fortunately, Ms. Metcalf's commanding performance keeps us involved in the crisis that envelops Juliana.
As she becomes obsessed with the trauma of Laurel's disappearance, the pressures of her illness begin to fracture her securely ordered mind. Ms. Metcalf depicts this process with transparent simplicity.
The doubt that slowly begins tugging away the foundations of Juliana's confidence can almost be seen gathering in her piercing brown eyes. Sudden flares of uncontrolled feeling appear like lightning flashes from a sky that was clear just moments before. A woman who has kept anguish at bay by maintaining strict control of her intellect and her emotions, Juliana must learn to live without certainty.
The Other Place
By Sharr White; directed by Joe Mantello; sets by Eugene Lee; costumes by Dane Laffrey; lighting by Justin Townsend; sound by Fitz Patton; projections and video by William Cusick; production stage manager, Linda Marvel; production manager, B. D. White; general manager, Ted Rounsaville. Presented by MCC Theater, Robert LuPone, Bernard Telsey and William Cantler, artistic directors; Blake West, executive director; in association with Marc Platt. At the Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village; (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com.
Through April 24. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes.
WITH: Dennis Boutsikaris (Ian), Aya Cash (the Woman), Laurie Metcalf (Juliana) and John Schiappa (the Man).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Other Place: Dennis Boutsikaris and Laurie Metcalf in ''The Other Place,'' by Sharr White, at the Lucille Lortel Theater. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (89%); CANCER (77%); ONCOLOGY (74%); BIOPHYSICS (71%); BIOLOGY (69%); BRAIN CANCER (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

TITLE: Other Place, The (Play)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



676 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
KABUL BANK IS PORTRAYED
AS PRIVATE A.T.M. FOR ELITE
A damning internal report by Afghanistan's Central Bank depicts the Afghan political elite as using Kabul Bank, the country's biggest financial institution, as their private piggy bank. The report raises questions about why the authorities did not act sooner, and suggests that the answers are in the political connections of the bank's officers and shareholders. PAGE A4 
TRAVEL BAN ON MUBARAK
Egypt's military command said that the ousted president, Hosni Mubarak, was banned from leaving the country, and that it would soon lift a detested emergency law, among a number of announcements seemingly intended to shore up diminishing support for the armed forces' council ruling the nation. PAGE A12
National
PARTIES REMAIN AT ODDS
AS FISCAL DEADLINE NEARS
Nearly a week after bipartisan talks broke down, no further negotiations are scheduled as the April 8 cutoff for federal spending approaches. While some back-channel communications continued, publicly each side sought to portray the other as intransigent. PAGE A24
New York
STATE VOTE IS EXPECTED
ON PLAN FOR POWER CABLE
Despite mounting criticism from lawmakers, and without advance notice, state utility officials are expected to vote on whether to save a proposed $850 million project that would carry electricity into Manhattan from New Jersey. PAGE A28
Business
JAPAN FACES MONTHS
OF POWER SHORTAGES
Utility experts say it will take many months, possibly into next year, to get anywhere close to restoring full power to Japan. The places most affected are not only in the earthquake-ravaged area but also in the economically crucial region closer to Tokyo, which is rationing power because some of the nation's electrical capacity was knocked out by the quake or washed away by the tsunami. PAGE B1
RETAILERS AND CROWD CONTROL
Retailers are facing more pressure to comply with crowd-safety guidelines issued by the government, after a decision last week that upheld a fine against Wal-Mart in the 2008 trampling death of an employee. PAGE B3
Sports
REDSKINS STAYED UNIFIED
IN EARLIER LABOR STRIFE
In the two previous N.F.L. work stoppages, the Washington Redskins remained unified, held their own practices and stuck to blueprints provided by their coaches before each strike. The Redskins won the Super Bowl after the 1982 and 1987 seasons, and not, they believe, by accident. PAGE B13
Arts
PORTUGUESE ARCHITECT
IS AWARDED PRITZKER PRIZES
Eduardo Souto de Moura, a Portuguese architect whose work combines the abstract minimalism of Mies van der Rohe with a preference for local materials and building techniques, has been awarded the 2011 Pritzker Prize, architecture's highest honor. PAGE C1
Science Times
TEASING OUT POLICY INSIGHT
FROM A CHARACTER PROFILE
For decades, analysts at the Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Department have compiled psychological assessments of hostile leaders. Presidents and diplomats have drawn on those profiles to inform their decisions -- in some cases to their benefit, in other cases at a cost. PAGE D1
Op-ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (74%); STRIKES (73%); POWER FAILURES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (68%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (66%); SPORTS (66%); EARTHQUAKES (64%); FINES & PENALTIES (62%); PSYCHOLOGY (62%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (52%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON FOOTBALL INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (52%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (52%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); JAPAN (92%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



677 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Billions in Profits, Zero in Taxes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I read ''At G.E. on Tax Day, Billions of Reasons to Smile'' (''But Nobody Pays That'' series, front page, March 25) while I was struggling to finish my 2010 taxes using TurboTax and debating whether I could legitimately deduct cab fares for medical appointments. 
When I read that G.E. had 975 employees in its tax department, I wished that I could have the use of just one of these employees for one hour.
It is outrageous that while on paper we have a top corporate tax rate of 35 percent, few if any corporations actually pay this rate.
When President Obama selected Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.'s chief executive, as chairman of the President's Council on Jobs and Competitiveness, he said that Mr. Immelt ''understands what it takes for America to compete in the global economy.'' I trust that the president was unaware that one of the ways that G.E. competes is not to pay taxes.
If this article doesn't wake Congress up to take some action to make the tax system fairer, nothing will.
And if Congress does not take action, then I just might become the first Tea Party member on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
MICHAEL J. McPHERSON New York, March 25, 2011
To the Editor:
I guess General Electric shouldn't be faulted for seeking out every possible way to legally minimize its tax burden. I do the same thing every year. But in those years when the stars aligned and I was able to make a significant dent in my taxes, I got hit with the alternative minimum tax.
Why not a corporate A.M.T., based on pretax profits, dividends paid or some other measure?
BILL DUNLAP Lake Oswego, Ore., March 25, 2011
To the Editor:
I can't stop thinking about your article on G.E.: $5.1 billion in profits from its United States operations; no taxes due; armies of lawyers working to find new ways to avoid paying taxes; and $200 million worth of lobbying over the past decade to keep the tax code in line with G.E.'s priorities.
Unbelievable.
I volunteer in the Detroit Public Schools and serve on the school board in my community. Cuts in education funding have been severe, and I shudder to think what Michigan schools will look like next fall.
While policy makers tout the importance of investing in education, the reality is that education is underfunded. Meanwhile, G.E. pays no taxes here on worldwide profits of $14.2 billion.
Large American companies that devote considerable resources to avoiding paying taxes and influencing tax policies are creating great inequities in our country.
JOAN WADSWORTH Northville, Mich., March 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LOBBYING (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (57%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (73%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



678 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 3277 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Remarks on Libya

 BODY:
Following is a text of President Obama's prepared remarks to the public on the American involvement in the war in Libya, as released by the White House on Monday night:
Good evening. Tonight, I'd like to update the American people on the international effort that we have led in Libya what we have done, what we plan to do, and why this matters to us.
I want to begin by paying tribute to our men and women in uniform who, once again, have acted with courage, professionalism and patriotism. They have moved with incredible speed and strength. Because of them and our dedicated diplomats, a coalition has been forged and countless lives have been saved. Meanwhile, as we speak, our troops are supporting our ally Japan, leaving Iraq to its people, stopping the Taliban's momentum in Afghanistan, and going after al Qaeda around the globe. As Commander-in-Chief, I am grateful to our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, Coast Guardsmen, and their families, as are all Americans. 
For generations, the United States of America has played a unique role as an anchor of global security and advocate for human freedom. Mindful of the risks and costs of military action, we are naturally reluctant to use force to solve the world's many challenges. But when our interests and values are at stake, we have a responsibility to act. That is what happened in Libya over the course of these last six weeks.
Libya sits directly between Tunisia and Egypt two nations that inspired the world when their people rose up to take control of their own destiny. For more than four decades, the Libyan people have been ruled by a tyrant Moammar Gaddafi. He has denied his people freedom, exploited their wealth, murdered opponents at home and abroad, and terrorized innocent people around the world including Americans who were killed by Libyan agents.
Last month, Gaddafi's grip of fear appeared to give way to the promise of freedom. In cities and towns across the country, Libyans took to the streets to claim their basic human rights. As one Libyan said, ''For the first time we finally have hope that our nightmare of 40 years will soon be over.''
Faced with this opposition, Gaddafi began attacking his people. As President, my immediate concern was the safety of our citizens, so we evacuated our Embassy and all Americans who sought our assistance. We then took a series of swift steps in a matter of days to answer Gaddafi's aggression. We froze more than $33 billion of the Gaddafi regime's assets. Joining with other nations at the United Nations Security Council, we broadened our sanctions, imposed an arms embargo, and enabled Gaddafi and those around him to be held accountable for their crimes. I made it clear that Gaddafi had lost the confidence of his people and the legitimacy to lead, and I said that he needed to step down from power.
In the face of the world's condemnation, Gaddafi chose to escalate his attacks, launching a military campaign against the Libyan people. Innocent people were targeted for killing. Hospitals and ambulances were attacked. Journalists were arrested, sexually assaulted, and killed. Supplies of food and fuel were choked off. The water for hundreds of thousands of people in Misratah was shut off. Cities and towns were shelled, mosques destroyed, and apartment buildings reduced to rubble. Military jets and helicopter gunships were unleashed upon people who had no means to defend themselves against assault from the air.
Confronted by this brutal repression and a looming humanitarian crisis, I ordered warships into the Mediterranean. European allies declared their willingness to commit resources to stop the killing. The Libyan opposition, and the Arab League, appealed to the world to save lives in Libya. At my direction, America led an effort with our allies at the United Nations Security Council to pass an historic Resolution that authorized a No Fly Zone to stop the regime's attacks from the air, and further authorized all necessary measures to protect the Libyan people.
Ten days ago, having tried to end the violence without using force, the international community offered Gaddafi a final chance to stop his campaign of killing, or face the consequences. Rather than stand down, his forces continued their advance, bearing down on the city of Benghazi, home to nearly 700,000 men, women and children who sought their freedom from fear.
At this point, the United States and the world faced a choice. Gaddafi declared that he would show ''no mercy'' to his own people. He compared them to rats, and threatened to go door to door to inflict punishment. In the past, we had seen him hang civilians in the streets, and kill over a thousand people in a single day. Now, we saw regime forces on the outskirts of the city. We knew that if we waited one more day, Benghazi a city nearly the size of Charlotte could suffer a massacre that would have reverberated across the region and stained the conscience of the world.
It was not in our national interest to let that happen. I refused to let that happen. And so nine days ago, after consulting the bipartisan leadership of Congress, I authorized military action to stop the killing and enforce UN Security Council Resolution 1973. We struck regime forces approaching Benghazi to save that city and the people within it. We hit Gaddafi's troops in neighboring Ajdabiya, allowing the opposition to drive them out. We hit his air defenses, which paved the way for a No Fly Zone. We targeted tanks and military assets that had been choking off towns and cities and we cut off much of their source of supply. And tonight, I can report that we have stopped Gaddafi's deadly advance.
In this effort, the United States has not acted alone. Instead, we have been joined by a strong and growing coalition. This includes our closest allies nations like the United Kingdom, France, Canada, Denmark, Norway, Italy, Spain, Greece, and Turkey all of whom have fought by our side for decades. And it includes Arab partners like Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, who have chosen to meet their responsibility to defend the Libyan people.
To summarize, then: in just one month, the United States has worked with our international partners to mobilize a broad coalition, secure an international mandate to protect civilians, stop an advancing army, prevent a massacre, and establish a No Fly Zone with our allies and partners. To lend some perspective on how rapidly this military and diplomatic response came together, when people were being brutalized in Bosnia in the 1990s, it took the international community more than a year to intervene with air power to protect civilians.
Moreover, we have accomplished these objectives consistent with the pledge that I made to the American people at the outset of our military operations. I said that America's role would be limited; that we would not put ground troops into Libya; that we would focus our unique capabilities on the front end of the operation, and that we would transfer responsibility to our allies and partners. Tonight, we are fulfilling that pledge.
Our most effective alliance, NATO, has taken command of the enforcement of the arms embargo and No Fly Zone. Last night, NATO decided to take on the additional responsibility of protecting Libyan civilians. This transfer from the United States to NATO will take place on Wednesday. Going forward, the lead in enforcing the No Fly Zone and protecting civilians on the ground will transition to our allies and partners, and I am fully confident that our coalition will keep the pressure on Gaddafi's remaining forces. In that effort, the United States will play a supporting role including intelligence, logistical support, search and rescue assistance, and capabilities to jam regime communications. Because of this transition to a broader, NATO-based coalition, the risk and cost of this operation to our military, and to American taxpayers will be reduced significantly.
So for those who doubted our capacity to carry out this operation, I want to be clear: the United States of America has done what we said we would do.
That is not to say that our work is complete. In addition to our NATO responsibilities, we will work with the international community to provide assistance to the people of Libya, who need food for the hungry and medical care for the wounded. We will safeguard the more than $33 billion that was frozen from the Gaddafi regime so that it is available to rebuild Libya. After all, this money does not belong to Gaddafi or to us it belongs to the Libyan people, and we will make sure they receive it.
Tomorrow, Secretary Clinton will go to London, where she will meet with the Libyan opposition and consult with more than thirty nations. These discussions will focus on what kind of political effort is necessary to pressure Gaddafi, while also supporting a transition to the future that the Libyan people deserve. Because while our military mission is narrowly focused on saving lives, we continue to pursue the broader goal of a Libya that belongs not to a dictator, but to its people.
Despite the success of our efforts over the past week, I know that some Americans continue to have questions about our efforts in Libya. Gaddafi has not yet stepped down from power, and until he does, Libya will remain dangerous. Moreover, even after Gaddafi does leave power, forty years of tyranny has left Libya fractured and without strong civil institutions. The transition to a legitimate government that is responsive to the Libyan people will be a difficult task. And while the United States will do our part to help, it will be a task for the international community, and more importantly a task for the Libyan people themselves.
In fact, much of the debate in Washington has put forward a false choice when it comes to Libya. On the one hand, some question why America should intervene at all even in limited ways in this distant land. They argue that there are many places in the world where innocent civilians face brutal violence at the hands of their government, and America should not be expected to police the world, particularly when we have so many pressing concerns here at home.
It is true that America cannot use our military wherever repression occurs. And given the costs and risks of intervention, we must always measure our interests against the need for action. But that cannot be an argument for never acting on behalf of what's right. In this particular country Libya; at this particular moment, we were faced with the prospect of violence on a horrific scale. We had a unique ability to stop that violence: an international mandate for action, a broad coalition prepared to join us, the support of Arab countries, and a plea for help from the Libyan people themselves. We also had the ability to stop Gaddafi's forces in their tracks without putting American troops on the ground.
To brush aside America's responsibility as a leader and more profoundly our responsibilities to our fellow human beings under such circumstances would have been a betrayal of who we are. Some nations may be able to turn a blind eye to atrocities in other countries. The United States of America is different. And as President, I refused to wait for the images of slaughter and mass graves before taking action.
Moreover, America has an important strategic interest in preventing Gaddafi from overrunning those who oppose him. A massacre would have driven thousands of additional refugees across Libya's borders, putting enormous strains on the peaceful yet fragile transitions in Egypt and Tunisia. The democratic impulses that are dawning across the region would be eclipsed by the darkest form of dictatorship, as repressive leaders concluded that violence is the best strategy to cling to power. The writ of the UN Security Council would have been shown to be little more than empty words, crippling its future credibility to uphold global peace and security. So while I will never minimize the costs involved in military action, I am convinced that a failure to act in Libya would have carried a far greater price for America.
Now, just as there are those who have argued against intervention in Libya, there are others who have suggested that we broaden our military mission beyond the task of protecting the Libyan people, and do whatever it takes to bring down Gaddafi and usher in a new government.
Of course, there is no question that Libya and the world will be better off with Gaddafi out of power. I, along with many other world leaders, have embraced that goal, and will actively pursue it through non-military means. But broadening our military mission to include regime change would be a mistake.
The task that I assigned our forces to protect the Libyan people from immediate danger, and to establish a No Fly Zone carries with it a UN mandate and international support. It is also what the Libyan opposition asked us to do. If we tried to overthrow Gaddafi by force, our coalition would splinter. We would likely have to put U.S. troops on the ground, or risk killing many civilians from the air. The dangers faced by our men and women in uniform would be far greater. So would the costs, and our share of the responsibility for what comes next.
To be blunt, we went down that road in Iraq. Thanks to the extraordinary sacrifices of our troops and the determination of our diplomats, we are hopeful about Iraq's future. But regime change there took eight years, thousands of American and Iraqi lives, and nearly a trillion dollars. That is not something we can afford to repeat in Libya.
As the bulk of our military effort ratchets down, what we can do and will do is support the aspirations of the Libyan people. We have intervened to stop a massacre, and we will work with our allies and partners as they're in the lead to maintain the safety of civilians. We will deny the regime arms, cut off its supply of cash, assist the opposition, and work with other nations to hasten the day when Gaddafi leaves power. It may not happen overnight, as a badly weakened Gaddafi tries desperately to hang on to power. But it should be clear to those around Gadaffi, and to every Libyan, that history is not on his side. With the time and space that we have provided for the Libyan people, they will be able to determine their own destiny, and that is how it should be.
Let me close by addressing what this action says about the use of America's military power, and America's broader leadership in the world, under my presidency.
As Commander-in-Chief, I have no greater responsibility than keeping this country safe. And no decision weighs on me more than when to deploy our men and women in uniform. I have made it clear that I will never hesitate to use our military swiftly, decisively, and unilaterally when necessary to defend our people, our homeland, our allies, and our core interests. That is why we are going after al Qaeda wherever they seek a foothold. That is why we continue to fight in Afghanistan, even as we have ended our combat mission in Iraq and removed more than 100,000 troops from that country.
There will be times, though, when our safety is not directly threatened, but our interests and values are. Sometimes, the course of history poses challenges that threaten our common humanity and common security responding to natural disasters, for example; or preventing genocide and keeping the peace; ensuring regional security, and maintaining the flow of commerce. These may not be America's problems alone, but they are important to us, and they are problems worth solving. And in these circumstances, we know that the United States, as the world's most powerful nation, will often be called upon to help.
In such cases, we should not be afraid to act but the burden of action should not be America's alone. As we have in Libya, our task is instead to mobilize the international community for collective action. Because contrary to the claims of some, American leadership is not simply a matter of going it alone and bearing all of the burden ourselves. Real leadership creates the conditions and coalitions for others to step up as well; to work with allies and partners so that they bear their share of the burden and pay their share of the costs; and to see that the principles of justice and human dignity are upheld by all.
That's the kind of leadership we have shown in Libya. Of course, even when we act as part of a coalition, the risks of any military action will be high. Those risks were realized when one of our planes malfunctioned over Libya. Yet when one of our airmen parachuted to the ground, in a country whose leader has so often demonized the United States in a region that has such a difficult history with our country this American did not find enemies. Instead, he was met by people who embraced him. One young Libyan who came to his aid said, ''We are your friends. We are so grateful to these men who are protecting the skies.''
This voice is just one of many in a region where a new generation is refusing to be denied their rights and opportunities any longer. Yes, this change will make the world more complicated for a time. Progress will be uneven, and change will come differently in different countries. There are places, like Egypt, where this change will inspire us and raise our hopes. And there will be places, like Iran, where change is fiercely suppressed. The dark forces of civil conflict and sectarian war will have to be averted, and difficult political and economic concerns addressed.
The United States will not be able to dictate the pace and scope of this change. Only the people of the region can do that. But we can make a difference. I believe that this movement of change cannot be turned back, and that we must stand alongside those who believe in the same core principles that have guided us through many storms: our opposition to violence directed against one's own citizens; our support for a set of universal rights, including the freedom for people to express themselves and choose their leaders; our support for governments that are ultimately responsive to the aspirations of the people.
Born, as we are, out of a revolution by those who longed to be free, we welcome the fact that history is on the move in the Middle East and North Africa, and that young people are leading the way. Because wherever people long to be free, they will find a friend in the United States. Ultimately, it is that faith those ideals that are the true measure of American leadership.
My fellow Americans, I know that at a time of upheaval overseas when the news is filled with conflict and change it can be tempting to turn away from the world. And as I have said before, our strength abroad is anchored in our strength at home. That must always be our North Star the ability of our people to reach their potential, to make wise choices with our resources, to enlarge the prosperity that serves as a wellspring of our power, and to live the values that we hold so dear.
But let us also remember that for generations, we have done the hard work of protecting our own people, as well as millions around the globe. We have done so because we know that our own future is safer and brighter if more of mankind can live with the bright light of freedom and dignity. Tonight, let us give thanks for the Americans who are serving through these trying times, and the coalition that is carrying our effort forward; and let us look to the future with confidence and hope not only for our own country, but for all those yearning for freedom around the world. Thank you, God Bless you, and may God Bless the United States of America.
###

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TALIBAN (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); MURDER (68%); AL-QAEDA (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%); ARMS EMBARGOES (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



679 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Facebook Prepares to Add Friends in Washington

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT and MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
Facebook is hoping to do something better and faster than any other technology start-up-turned-Internet superpower.
Befriend Washington.
Facebook has layered its executive, legal, policy and communications ranks with high-powered politicos from both parties, beefing up its firepower for future battles in Washington and beyond. There's Sheryl Sandberg, the former Clinton administration official who is chief operating officer, and Ted Ullyot, a general counsel former clerk for Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia who is general counsel, among others. The latest candidate is Robert Gibbs, President Obama's former White House press secretary, whom Facebook is trying to lure to its communications team.
With good reason, political and legal analysts say. Barely seven years after it was born in a Harvard dorm room, Facebook, as much as any other company, is redefining the notion of privacy and transforming communications, media and advertising in the Internet age. 
While the company has come under fire for a series of privacy stumbles, it largely remains a darling of politicians -- even earning a glowing mention in the State of the Union. But Facebook has watched the missteps of Microsoft and Google in Washington, and knows that its current skirmishes are merely a prelude to looming clashes over its influence on the economic and social Web. And so it is building a stalwart defense, moving at broadband speed from start-up to realpolitik strategist.
''Information is the gold or the oil of the economy in the information age,'' said Paul M. Schwartz, a law professor and expert in information technology at the law school at the University of California, Berkeley. Mr. Schwartz said Facebook seemed to have learned quickly that demands for regulation would pile up, not just from users and advocacy groups but from competitors.
''What they're doing is pragmatic, and it's pragmatic to do it sooner rather than later,'' he said.
Facebook declined to comment on its conversations with Mr. Gibbs, who is considering a position in Silicon Valley, not Washington.
The company said it understood the importance of having a Washington presence, mainly so it could explain its social networking service and its many features and privacy policies to lawmakers and regulators. But it played down the importance of having connections on both sides of the political spectrum.
''We are looking for people who are passionate about Facebook, who understand and can anticipate policy issues, and who are good at explaining those issues,'' said Marne Levine, a former Obama administration official, who joined Facebook last year as vice president of global public policy. She said Facebook hired people of different political affiliations to bring a ''diversity of perspectives to its policy team.''
Still, some privacy advocates are fretting over Facebook's new hires. These critics say the company's growing Washington connections will dampen reasonable criticisms about some Facebook policies.
Other policy analysts say that, substance aside, Facebook's efforts will add up to significant influence.
''The practical implication is it's going to make it more difficult for advocates to convince members of Congress that Facebook presents a privacy problem,'' said Chris Jay Hoofnagle, director of privacy programs at the Center for Law and Technology at the University of California, Berkeley. He said politically connected executives would not only be granted audiences with government officials to discuss substantive issues but, in the case of elected officials, would also have the chance to reinforce the idea that Facebook can be a powerful campaign tool.
''One of the big points is to show lawmakers that Facebook is important to their own campaigns,'' Mr. Hoofnagle said. ''Once that fact is established, Congress will not touch Facebook.''
While Facebook's tentacles in Washington reach to both sides of the aisle, Democrats appear to be dominant, as they are in much of Silicon Valley. Ms. Sandberg, the company's No. 2 official behind Mark Zuckerberg, its co-founder and chief executive, is a consummate networker who developed deep connections in the Democratic party establishment when she was chief of staff to Lawrence H. Summers during his time as Treasury secretary for President Clinton. While Ms. Sandberg focuses on Facebook's business side, she remains highly attuned to politics.
''Certainly I'm very focused on what's going on in D.C.,'' she said in an interview last year.
In June, Facebook hired Ms. Levine, who was chief of staff of the White House National Economic Council. She joined a growing Washington office that also included Timothy D. Sparapani, a former legislative staffer at the American Civil Liberties Union with deep connections on Capitol Hill.
But Facebook has not neglected Republicans. In 2008, it hired Mr. Ullyot, who in addition to working for Justice Scalia, was a White House lawyer and chief of staff for Alberto Gonzales, when he was attorney general in the George W. Bush administration. At the time of his hiring, Elliot Schrage, the company's communications chief, told The Los Angeles Times that Mr. Ullyot ''has extremely strong connections with the Republican Party, and we think that's a good thing.''
Last month Facebook increased its Republican credentials, hiring Catherine Martin, who had been President Bush's deputy assistant and deputy communications director for policy and planning.
Facebook's political operation remains quite small when compared with those of its competitors. The company spent just $350,000 in lobbying in 2010, far less than the $5.1 million spent by Google, according to OpenSecrets.org. Still, the company is building up its Washington operation, which now has 10 people. On Monday, the group moved into new offices with plenty of room for growth. In a nod to Beltway humor, the conference rooms have names like the Rose Garden, Camp David, An Undisclosed Location, Smoke-Filled Room and Kissing Babies.
Facebook is hiring at a rapid pace in all areas of its business to keep up with growth and prepare for a possible public offering
But legal analysts say Facebook is hoping to avoid mistakes made by predecessors like Microsoft. And they say the company is becoming politically savvy earlier in its life than Google, whose connections were firmly established once Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive, advised the Obama presidential campaign and the administration.
''You can see how the thinking of the technology companies has changed,'' said Gary Reback, a Silicon Valley lawyer who helped organize opposition to Microsoft in the 1990s, and more recently intervened to oppose Google's plans for a giant digital library on antitrust grounds. Last week, a federal judge agreed with many of Google's critics and rejected a settlement that would have allowed the company to go forward with its digital library plans.
Mr. Reback said that even though Google had come under attack, its connections had probably softened the blow.
''I don't think anyone in the White House calls up the Justice Department,'' Mr. Reback said. ''But if you are in one of these agencies and you see a company that should be under investigation palling around with the president, it has a chilling effect. Most of these companies understand that.''
Richard A. Epstein, a New York University law professor and senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, who has counseled companies on how to avoid regulation, said Facebook appeared to have learned especially from Microsoft, whose early disdain for Washington became a liability when it was the target of antitrust regulators in the late 1990s.
''The stakes have gotten so large that companies are hiring two kinds of people: people who know something and people who know somebody,'' Professor Epstein said. ''Access is priceless.''
Facebook has spread its political connections beyond Washington. In 2009, it hired Richard Allan, a former member of Parliament in Britain, to be its director of public policy in Europe.
''None of this is rocket science,'' said Andrew McLaughlin, who served as director of global public policy at Google before joining the White House as deputy chief technology officer in 2008. ''You make a judgment as to how much of a threat you face in D.C., you decide how much money you are willing to spend, and then you hire people based on your strategic sense.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer, previously worked in the Clinton administration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Facebook's Ted Ullyot, left, worked for Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia
Marne Levine, center, for the Obama administration
and Tim Sparapani for the A.C.L.U. in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FACEBOOK
SCOTT J. FERRELL/CONGRESSIONAL QUARTERLY, VIA GETTY IMAGES
 ANDREA BRUCE/WASHINGTON POST) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (79%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (75%); POLITICS (75%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (73%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); BROADBAND (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (90%); GOOGLE INC (84%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (90%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); SHERYL SANDBERG (74%); ANTONIN SCALIA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



680 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Part of the Budget Fight: Picking a Bad Guy

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMESand CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Already resigned to a final budget for this year that cuts deeply into domestic spending, Democrats in the White House and Congress are struggling to regroup behind a strategy to limit the reductions -- or to set up House Republicans for blame if the current standoff shuts down the government.
Nearly a week after bipartisan talks broke down, no further negotiations are scheduled as the April 8 cutoff for federal spending approaches. While some back-channel communications continued on Monday, each side sought to publicly portray the other as intransigent. 
Both parties remain uncertain about which of them would bear the brunt of public anger if Congress cannot agree on financing federal operations for the final half of this fiscal year and government agencies shut down or drastically scale back the services they can provide.
Even many Democrats believe that House Republicans have gotten the better of the antispending, antigovernment argument. But Democrats insist that is because much of the public does not appreciate the impact the Republicans' $61 billion in proposed reductions would have on spending for popular social programs if those cuts were to become law with just half of the current fiscal year remaining.
Polls provide some evidence for the Democrats' contention; while majorities of Americans favor cutting spending, nonpartisan polls show that by large margins, they also oppose cutting particular areas like those on the chopping block. Yet on Capitol Hill, the Democrats still seem to be on the defensive. Led by President Obama, they argue for ''smart cuts,'' saying Republicans would slash spending arbitrarily and so severely that the sudden reductions could threaten the economy's recovery.
National polls and independent voters, while critical to Mr. Obama and his prospects for re-election, are of little import to many House Republicans. Most are elected from heavily Republican districts and the scores of conservative Republican newcomers answer to their Tea Party backers, who want more spending cuts, not fewer.
''There is no disagreement about trying to come together to reduce spending,'' said a Democrat involved in the talks among the White House and leaders of the House Republican and Senate Democratic majorities.
But the Democratic official, who asked not to be identified discussing the private negotiations, added: ''We're not going to agree to numbers that would have the effect of causing deep cuts in education or research and development, or causing enormous damage in other areas -- infrastructure or the safety net -- from just picking a number out of the air.''
In dueling statements, the House and Senate majority leaders reproached the other party for last week's impasse and for a shutdown, should one occur.
The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said Republicans were split over how or even whether to compromise, given their fealty to the Tea Party. ''Republicans have to resolve their own deep disagreements before we can find middle ground between the two parties,'' he said.
''Democrats have long ago acknowledged that we'll need Republicans to pass a bill,'' Mr. Reid added. ''But Republicans still haven't admitted to themselves that they'll need Democrats to pass one, too.''
The House majority leader, Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia, said that Mr. Reid and another Senate Democratic leader, Charles E. Schumer of New York, had failed to offer a credible plan to finance the government for the rest of the fiscal year.
''In the scope of our debt crisis, if Senator Reid and Senator Schumer force the government to partially shut down over these sensible spending cuts, Americans will hold them accountable,'' Mr. Cantor said in his statement.
Yet Democrats' willingness to make significant cuts in current year federal spending, even if too few by Republicans' standards, underscores a point that Republicans have been making since their gains in last November's midterm elections: The budget debate has fundamentally shifted from whether to cut to how much.
In decades past, bipartisan budget agreements generally were balanced between spending cuts and more tax revenues. But Democratic leaders have not pressed for raising taxes, only for cutting them for lower- and middle-income workers.
Since January, Congress and the White House have already approved $10 billion in cuts without much of a battle. But the stakes are higher now as negotiators focus on getting an agreement to finish the year; House Republican leaders fear that they could not get conservative party members to approve another short-term extension.
With lawmakers trickling back from last week's recess, budget negotiators could not even agree on which party had to make the next move for talks to resume, or on what budget numbers they were working from.
A week ago, people in both parties reported progress and predicted an accord that would make something more than $30 billion in domestic cuts -- about half the $61 billion that the House passed. The two sides also are split over so-called policy riders that House Republicans approved, including to bar federal spending for Planned Parenthood and for the Environmental Protection Administration to enforce pollution emission standards.
But the talks collapsed last Tuesday. Democrats went in expecting Republicans to counter their weekend proposal for $11 billion more in spending cuts. Together with the $10 billion in reductions in recent continuing resolutions, Democrats said that would bring them about a third of the way toward House Republicans' proposed $61 billion.
But Republicans had no counteroffer. Instead, according to people familiar with the talks, they said Democrats had to start over, working from the House-passed measure and identifying each spending cut and policy rider they opposed. Discussion grew heated and the White House budget director, Jacob J. Lew, said the negotiators were wasting time -- in effect ending the talks indefinitely.
After losing 54 House Republicans on the previous budget-extension vote, party leaders worry they cannot round up enough Republican votes for cuts much below $61 billion. But, Democrats counter, cuts that high would not pass in the Senate or, ultimately, get Mr. Obama's signature.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, said Republicans were split over how or even whether to compromise on a budget. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



681 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Defending Strikes, Obama Says He 'Refused to Wait'

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama defended the American-led military assault in Libya on Monday, saying it was in the national interest of the United States to stop a potential massacre that would have ''stained the conscience of the world.''
In his first major address since ordering American airstrikes on the forces and artillery of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi nine days ago, Mr. Obama emphasized that the United States's role in the assault would be limited, but said that America had the responsibility and the international backing to stop what he characterized as a looming genocide in the Libyan city of Benghazi.
''I refused to wait for the images of slaughter and mass graves before taking action,'' Mr. Obama said.
At the same time, he said, directing American troops to forcibly remove Colonel Qaddafi from power would be a step too far, and would ''splinter'' the international coalition that has moved against the Libyan government. 
''To be blunt, we went down that road in Iraq,'' Mr. Obama said, adding that ''regime change there took eight years, thousands of American and Iraqi lives, and nearly a trillion dollars. That is not something we can afford to repeat in Libya.''
Speaking in the early evening from the National Defense University in Washington, Mr. Obama said he had made good on his promise to limit American military involvement against Colonel Qaddafi's forces -- he did not use the word ''war'' to describe the action -- and he laid out a more general philosophy for the use of force.
But while Mr. Obama described a narrower role for the United States in a NATO-led operation in Libya, the American military has been carrying out an expansive and increasingly potent air campaign to compel the Libyan Army to turn against Colonel Qaddafi.
The president said he was willing to act unilaterally to defend the nation and its core interests. But in other cases, he said, when the safety of Americans is not directly threatened but where action can be justified -- in the case of genocide, humanitarian relief, regional security or economic interests -- the United States should not act alone. His statements amounted both to a rationale for multilateralism and another critique of what he has all along characterized as the excessively unilateral tendencies of the administration of George W. Bush.
''In such cases, we should not be afraid to act -- but the burden of action should not be America's alone,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Because contrary to the claims of some, American leadership is not simply a matter of going it alone and bearing all of the burden ourselves. Real leadership creates the conditions and coalitions for others to step up as well; to work with allies and partners so that they bear their share of the burden and pay their share of the costs; and to see that the principles of justice and human dignity are upheld by all.''
Mr. Obama never mentioned many of the other nations going through upheaval across the Arab world, including Yemen, Syria and Bahrain, but left little doubt that his decision to send the United States military into action in Libya was the product of a confluence of particular circumstances and opportunities.
He did not say how the intervention in Libya would end, but said the United States and its allies would seek to drive Colonel Qaddafi from power by means other than military force if necessary.
Speaking for 28 minutes, Mr. Obama addressed a number of audiences. To the American public, he tried to offer reassurance that the United States was not getting involved in another open-ended commitment in a place that few Americans had spent much time thinking about. To the democracy protesters across the Middle East, he vowed that the United States would stand by them, even as he said that ''progress will be uneven, and change will come differently in different countries,'' a partial acknowledgment that complex relations between the United States and different Arab countries may make for different American responses in different countries.
''The United States will not be able to dictate the pace and scope of this change,'' Mr. Obama said. But, he added, ''I believe that this movement of change cannot be turned back, and that we must stand alongside those who believe in the same core principles that have guided us through many storms: our opposition to violence directed against one's own citizens; our support for a set of universal rights, including the freedom for people to express themselves and choose their leaders; our support for governments that are ultimately responsive to the aspirations of the people.''
The president's remarks were timed to coincide with the formal handover of control over the Libya campaign to NATO, scheduled for Wednesday. But in the wake of criticism from Congressional representatives from both sides of the aisle that Mr. Obama overstepped his authority in ordering the strikes without first getting Congressional approval -- and the return of lawmakers to Washington after their spring recess -- Mr. Obama had another audience: Congress.
Mr. Obama said that he authorized the military action only ''after consulting the bipartisan leadership of Congress,'' which White House officials have maintained is sufficient for what they have described as a limited military campaign.
Whether his comments will do much to calm the criticism on Capitol Hill remains unclear. Some liberals remain unsettled by the fact of another war in a Muslim country, initiated by a Democratic president who first came to national prominence as an opponent of the Iraq war, even as others backed the use of force to avert a potential massacre.
Some Republicans continued to criticize Mr. Obama for moving too slowly, while another strain of conservative thought argued that the intervention was overreach, a military action without a compelling national interest.
''Since the allied military campaign began in Libya, President Obama's seeming uncertainty about the parameters and details of our engagement has only inspired a similar uncertainty among the American people,'' Representative Tom Price, Republican of Georgia, said in a statement after the speech. ''The president's speech this evening offered very little to diminish those concerns.''
From the start, Mr. Obama has been caught between criticism that he did not do enough and that he had done too much. He continued to try to explain some seeming contradictions on Monday evening, including that while the United States wants Colonel Qaddafi out, it would not make his departure a goal of the military action.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, he said, will attend a meeting in London on Tuesday where the international community will try to come up with a separate plan to pressure Colonel Qaddafi to leave.
''I know that some Americans continue to have questions about our efforts in Libya,'' Mr. Obama acknowledged. ''Qaddafi has not yet stepped down from power, and until he does, Libya will remain dangerous.''
But, he said, ''if we try to overthrow Qaddafi by force, our coalition would splinter. We would likely have to put U.S. troops on the ground, or risk killing many civilians from the air. The dangers to our men and women in uniform would be far greater. So would the costs and our share of the responsibility for what comes next.''
Aaron David Miller, a State Department Middle East peace negotiator during the Clinton administration, said Mr. Obama described a doctrine that, in essence, can be boiled to this: ''If we can, if there's a moral case, if we have allies, and if we can transition out and not get stuck, we'll move to help. The Obama doctrine is the 'hedge your bets and make sure you have a way out' doctrine. He learned from Afghanistan and Iraq.''
White House officials said the American strikes in Libya did not set a precedent for military action in other Middle East trouble spots. ''Obviously there are certain aspirations that are being voiced by each of these movements, but there's no question that each of them is unique,'' Deputy National Security Adviser Denis McDonough said on Monday. ''We don't get very hung up on this question of precedent.''
But the question of precedent is one that Mr. Obama is clearly still grappling with. ''My fellow Americans, I know that at a time of upheaval overseas -- when the news is filled with conflict and change -- it can be tempting to turn away from the world,'' he said.
But, his conclusion was ambiguous at best: ''Let us look to the future with confidence and hope not only for our own country, but for all those yearning for freedom around the world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama at the National Defense University in Washington during his televised address on Monday night. (A1)
President Obama after his remarks at the National Defense University in Washington, where he spoke on television about the military operation in Libya.
 Listening, from left, were Adm. Mike Mullen, Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); GENOCIDE (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



682 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Investment in France Rises 22%, Countering a Perception

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
PARIS - The French economy is popularly viewed as sclerotic and sheltered, but government data released Monday - as well as the testimony of a number of global chief executives - suggest the opposite.
Italians, though, might beg to differ.
A report from the government's Invest in France Agency showed that the number of foreign direct investments rose 22 percent last year from 2009, to 782 projects creating 31,000 jobs. It was the highest number in 15 years and came after stagnation for the two previous years.
Christine Lagarde, the economy minister, described 2010 as a ''record-breaking year'' for investments, most of which came from Germany, followed by the United States, Britain and Italy.
She said the government had become more attentive to the needs of foreign-owned companies and had improved the investment environment through means including the creation of research tax credits; the elimination of a local business tax; the establishment of a tax-free overtime system; the investment in infrastructure, especially around Paris; and the promotion of so-called centers of excellence where companies in related fields can work side by side. 
And at a reception Monday in Paris, a number of foreign executives joined Ms. Lagarde in extolling the virtues of France as more than a vacation destination.
One of those - Robert Lu, chairman of China National BlueStar, a chemical company - said he had found France far more welcoming than Germany. ''The French government are very open to attract investment,'' he said. ''That is the difference compared with Germany.''
He said his company had invested 200 million euros, or about $280 million, in France over the past four years and intended to spend an additional 130 million euros this year.
But Italian executives have long complained that France has thrown up roadblocks to their efforts to expand into France, and a battle now going on between companies from the two countries has revived memories of past clashes.
Lactalis, a privately held company based in Normandy and the largest cheese and milk producer in Europe, has been accumulating shares in the giant Italian food company Parmalat. And now Lactalis is starting to encounter barriers to extending its control. Lactalis said last week that it planned to buy a 15.3 percent stake in Parmalat from a group of activist investors and then to increase its stake to 29 percent.
Soon after, however, it emerged that the Milan prosecutor was investigating Parmalat's recent stock movements. In addition, Rome has issued a decree allowing Parmalat to delay a shareholder meeting scheduled for April, during which Lactalis was expected to consolidate its control. The Italian government has also called for an ''Italian solution'' for Parlamat, and a consortium of domestic companies is being pulled together to make a bid for the company.
The defensive stance stems from the belief among many Italian executives and politicians that when it comes to investment and mergers involving France, the traffic is all one way.
In 2006, the French government engineered a merger between the water utility Suez and Gaz de France to prevent Suez from being acquired by Enel, the Italian energy giant.
That same year, BNP Paribas of France bought Italy's Banca Nazionale del Lavoro. In 2009, Air France-KLM took a minority stake in the Italian flag carrier Alitalia. And this month, LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the French luxury goods conglomerate, announced that it would buy the Italian jeweler Bulgari.
Several other French companies, including the electric utility EDF and the insurance company Groupama, are also looking into expanding their holdings in Italian rivals.
Ms. Lagarde denied there was an agenda at work. ''We haven't barred any Italian from investing in France,'' she said. ''There might be frustration regarding the level of foreign direct investment in flagship companies, and that is perfectly understandable. It's a matter of really having a dialogue.''
But there remains a lingering sense among many analysts that France does not always open its arms to foreign investors, whether from Italy or elsewhere, if it means giving up control of well-known French companies.
In 2005, rumors that PepsiCo would bid for Danone, the big French food and drink company, set off a backlash, with Dominique de Villepin, then prime minister, calling for ''economic patriotism.''
A few months later, the French government published a list of 11 sectors deemed vital to national security, and said it would protect companies in those areas from foreign takeovers. The list includes casinos. PepsiCo never made a bid.
In 2009, Areva, the state-controlled French nuclear company, sold its electrical grid business to a group of French companies rather than to General Electric of the United States and Toshiba of Japan, even though the foreign companies had offered sweeter deals.
Ms. Lagarde said that when it came to foreign takeovers, France differed from other countries only in its approach. ''Compared with other countries we are specific, we don't have leeway, we don't have discretion,'' she said.
It is not only French data that show that the country has become a top player in global investment flows. According to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, in 2009 France ranked third globally for foreign investment inflows, behind the United States and China. It slipped to fourth place in 2010, when Hong Kong pulled ahead.
Data from the U.N. body also show France as the second-largest provider of foreign direct investment in 2009, at $147 billion, ranking behind the United States, at $248 billion, but ahead of Japan, Germany and China.
Among the foreign companies that have expanded in France in the past year are Amazon.com and General Electric, Bertelsmann of Germany and Nestle of Switzerland.
While France retains a reputation for a rigid labor market, many of the executive said Monday that this was often outweighed by positive factors, including a large domestic market, low-cost energy, good infrastructure and well-trained workers.
''We decided to stay here for the full picture,'' said Luiz Fuchs, chief executive of the European operations of Embraer, the Brazilian aircraft company, which has been operating in France for almost 30 years. ''Yes, we would like to have more flexible labor laws, but I think the overall picture fits very well.''
Hans-Paul Burkner, chief executive of the Boston Consulting Group, said most of Europe, not only France, ''has a challenge'' and must overcome the ''mentality'' of protecting old jobs rather than creating new ones.
''You may, with flexibility, lose some jobs short term, but in the long term you create more opportunities,'' he said. ''We have to overcome that dilemma.''
Stephen A. Schwarzman, chief executive of the private equity firm Blackstone Group, said he would like to hold more French assets. ''It's not the easiest place to buy,'' he said. ''It's a good place to own.''
He estimated that France's labor costs were lower than those of Germany, where ''they take plenty of vacation and they seem to do quite well as a manufacturing economy.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lactalis of France said its plan to buy more of Parmalat of Italy had met opposition from Rome. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTONIO CALANNI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Christine Lagarde, the economy minister, said France was paying more attention to the needs of foreign-owned companies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN GRESS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); CHEMICALS (71%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (68%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); CHEESE (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (51%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%)

COMPANY: GROUPE LACTALIS (85%); PARMALAT SPA (52%)

TICKER: PLT (BIT) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (85%); SIC2021 CREAMERY BUTTER (85%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (52%); SIC2022 NATURAL, PROCESSED, & IMITATION CHEESE (52%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%) NORMANDY, FRANCE (56%) FRANCE (99%); GERMANY (93%); ITALY (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2011



683 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Black Migration

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Many U.S. Blacks Moving to South, Reversing Trend'' (front page, March 25): 
It is understandable that so many black families are migrating out of Northern cities for seemingly greener economic pastures in the South and the Sun Belt. Gentrification, high rents, poor schools and decades of government neglect pushed many poor families out and made those that could afford to leave eager to do so.
But there are real and lasting downsides from this new migration. With the black population more spread out and less concentrated in traditional areas, the political power of African-Americans will recede with it.
Worse yet, the gentrification-driven mini-renaissance many cities are now seeing won't be enjoyed by the very black families that endured the worst of urban decay -- the crime, the disinvestment, the despair. It is a sad fact that many of the families who weathered the storm won't be there to enjoy the sunshine.
This is a reminder that it should be a national priority to make every community a community of opportunity. You shouldn't have to move thousands of miles to find an affordable home or a quality school.
ANGELA GLOVER BLACKWELL Oakland, Calif., March 25, 2011
The writer is chief executive of PolicyLink, a national research and advocacy institute, and the co-author of ''Uncommon Common Ground: Race and America's Future.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); WRITERS (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (73%); DIVESTITURES (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ADVOCACY INSTITUTE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



684 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Lennar Posts Fewer Orders For Homes

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Lennar, one of the nation's largest home builders, reported lower quarterly orders on Tuesday, signaling continued weakness in the housing market.
Shares fell 3.4 percent as the company said the important spring selling season, which began in early February, was not shaping up into a recovery from the five-year housing slump. 
''The long-awaited spring selling season of 2011 has not yet defined itself as the beginning of a recovery cycle,'' Stuart A. Miller, Lennar's chief executive, said.
Lennar's revenue fell 3 percent, to $558 million, while orders dropped 12 percent, to 2,267 homes. Orders are a leading indicator for home builders, which do not book revenue until they close on a house.
Industrywide, home prices fell for the sixth consecutive month in January, according to data released on Tuesday.
Lennar, which has operations in 14 states, including most of the East Coast, Texas and California, said it made a first-quarter profit of $27.4 million, or 14 cents a share, in contrast to a net loss of $6.5 million, or 4 cents a share, a year ago.
Earnings were helped by a legal settlement and other one-time gains.
Analysts on average expected a loss of 5 cents a share on revenue of $507.9 million, according to Thomson Reuters, but it was not clear if the numbers were comparable because of the many one-time items.
The company said its distressed land investment and development arm, Rialto, generated $11 million in operating earnings and called it a ''bright spot.''
The company lost $25 million from home building.
As a result of the weak orders, Lennar will probably have to use more incentives -- like upgraded features or cash gifts to buyers -- to move homes it has built in anticipation of more demand, said Joel Locker, an analyst at FBN Securities.
''The housing market is still dismal,'' he said.
In the first quarter, Lennar offered $33,100 in incentives per home, or 12.1 percent of home sales revenue, about flat with last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (55%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (51%)

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (92%)

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%)

PERSON: STUART A MILLER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); TEXAS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



685 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart No, Aldi Yes?

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
While Wal-Mart revives its plans to get into New York City, a giant German retailer has slipped in relatively unnoticed.
In February, with virtually no opposition -- a Queens politician even showed up at the grand opening in Rego Park, Queens -- a discount retailer called Aldi opened its first store in the city, and plans to open a second one, in the Bronx, later this year.
After decades spent fleeing cities for the strip malls and boulevards of the suburbs, grocers and discount retailers are doing an about-face. Target plans to open its first smaller, city-size store in Seattle next year, and Wal-Mart announced recently that it would build ''hundreds'' of smaller, mostly urban stores in the coming years.
Meanwhile, Aldi has quietly been setting up its shops in cities around the country. 
''They're not only doing the small format more rapidly, but they're getting into the urban areas more rapidly than either Wal-Mart Express or the city Targets,'' said Craig Johnson, president of the consulting firm Customer Growth Partners. ''Even though the company's headquartered in Germany, they've opened up a New York store quicker than Wal-Mart has.''
Even though Aldi, like Wal-Mart, is nonunion, it has faced little resistance, compared with the heated opposition often headed by unions and politicians that Wal-Marts have encountered in larger markets.
''There's no reason to oppose an Aldi -- it's a small format, and they usually get space from an existing landowner or landlord, a small guy who's plugged into the community, not a big guy like a Forest City Ratner,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''Wal-Mart has sort of become a bad guy that there's a concerted effort against. I'm not sure that Aldi has really gotten on anyone's radar screen.''
Aldi first came to the United States in 1976, but it opened a relatively small number of stores a year -- 25 or so on average. Within the last few years, it has accelerated its expansion by adding more than 250 stores, with plans for 80 more both in 2011 and 2012, said Jason Hart, co-president of Aldi's United States division, in a recent interview.
The company capitalizes on the bargain hunter, who is not embarrassed to choose frugality over name brands. Aldi's mainly sells its own private-label items at cheap prices -- a five-ounce bacon-wrapped beef filet costs $1.79 at the Queens store.
''It's the one format that seems to have increased the most, and has sustained a number of new stores,'' during and after the recession, said Jonathan P. Feeney, a grocery analyst with Janney Capital Markets. As ''prices are going to go up, it's going to be a growing opportunity.''
Aldi was founded by the Albrecht brothers, who worked in their mother's German retail business and took it over in the 1940s. In 1961, they introduced the Aldi name, short for Albrecht Discount.
According to Stores magazine, the Aldi group was the eight-largest retailer in the world in 2009 (the most recent figures available), with an estimated $67.7 billion in revenue. According to estimates by Mr. Johnson, about $6.5 billion of Aldi's revenue stems from sales in the United States.
Aldi's model is to sell groceries and basics like dishwasher soap and laundry detergent in drugstore-size spaces -- its Queens store is 17,500 square feet, about 16 percent the size of an average Wal-Mart -- in urban, suburban and rural areas, though the focus lately has been in cities.
About 95 percent of its goods bear an obscure private label. For example, rather than Skippy, Jiffy, natural, and jam-swirled peanut butter, Aldi sells one kind, which it commissions itself. (It's similar to the higher-end Trader Joe's, which is owned by an Albrecht family trust.)
''We carry 1,500 of the most popular grocery items out there,'' Mr. Hart said. ''You won't find some exotic spice or exotic produce items in our stores; you won't find every flavor of every items. When you look at the large supermarkets that may have 20- to 30,000 items, or superstores, with over 100,000 items, it's surprising to the customers how much of the shopping list we're able to fit into our smaller store.''
Fewer product lines translate into making even a small, high-rent space quite profitable.
''It simplifies everything -- supply chain, delivery,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''You stock the stuff that's the highest velocity and that you make the highest margin on.''
The Aldi stores cut costs in other ways. In most, customers drop in a quarter to get a shopping cart, and get the quarter back when they return the cart, to prevent theft. Carts are locked so they cannot go beyond the store in any case.
The stores do not accept checks or credit cards. There is no butcher or bakery, and fruit is sold in bags to speed checkout.
Given those savings and the absence of advertising costs, Aldi officials say their discounts amount to up to 45 percent off competitors like Wal-Mart's private-label brands. But analysts provide a lower estimate, a discount over all of about 20 percent.
Those expecting dusty, cluttered aisles with expired dates on cereal boxes and dented tin cans might be surprised by the Aldi atmosphere .
''This is not just the knockoff, cheapo, old model of discount stores,'' Mr. Johnson said.
In the Queens store, aisles are eight feet wide -- standard at Aldis in the United States. Cheerful pictures of produce and cheeses adorn yellow-painted walls.
Aisles are lined with basics like hand soap, soup and bread, as well as anise-flavored waffle cookies at $2.69 for seven ounces. A pretty five-inch tall orchid sold for $5.99. And in ''special values'' aisles, items carried for a week or two included private-label appliances like quesadilla makers.
''It used to be private label was really a white box with black lettering, and that's not what private label is now,'' said David Fuselier, an investor in urban grocery stores. ''Now it's private label that is attractive, that has nutritious labels on it, and that are part of the corporate strategy.''
Though almost all the products are made by Aldi, it has created hundreds of ''brand names'' that echo the national brands in name and design. While those enhance the store's stock more than black-and-white generic labels would, the unknown brands have the unsettling effect of making a shopper feel as if she is on a movie set, a la ''The Truman Show.'' Yum, cheddar goldfish -- but it's Savoritz Sharks.
''It's just an opportunity to give a little more character to the product,'' said Bruce Persohn, who oversees the region that includes New York City for Aldi. ''For our loyal customers they really become household names.''
To add to the confusion, occasionally Aldi will carry brand names, like Splenda, when it can't find a good substitute. And it also has brands like Colgate -- Mr. Persohn said it had sold private-label toothpaste at one point, but ''we opted for Colgate. People just like Colgate.''
On a recent Wednesday afternoon, shoppers at the new Queens Aldi seemed a little perplexed by its quirks.
''Do these carts go outside or no?'' said a woman who was trying to wrestle her cart, with three shopping bags, to a nearby parking lot. ''So you need two people to come shopping with you,'' she said crossly.
Two middle-aged women were looking for Milky Ways, with no luck.
''So this is all, like, no brands?'' said the younger-looking of the two.
An elderly woman with a thick German accent approached an executive, asking why the store did not carry strudel. ''It is strudel season!'' she insisted.
''There is a little bit of an education that comes along with shopping the store,'' Mr. Persohn said.
Analysts and industry executives say that bargain shopping, which became a necessity during the recession, is now attracting all kinds of shoppers.
''With the recession, the concept of shame has gone out the window,'' Mr. Fuselier, the urban-grocery investor, said. ''People don't really worry about going to a discounter.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A produce display at the Aldi discount grocery chain in the Rego Park section of Queens
the retailer has faced little resistance. (B1)
 Estimates are that Aldi, a privately held, nonunion chain, has more than 8,000 stores worldwide and 1,000 in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (91%); RETAILERS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); PRIVATE LABELS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); POLITICS (77%); SUBURBS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (95%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



686 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Glimmer of Better Days For Manhattan Offices

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
In late 2008, with the economy in free fall and the collapse of negotiations with an anchor tenant, Boston Properties halted construction on an office tower at 250 West 55th Street in Manhattan.
But now, having signed a letter of intent with a tenant, the law firm Morrison Foerster, Boston Properties is preparing to restart construction of the one-million-square-foot building at year's end. The rough space will be available for tenants by the end of 2013, with occupancy expected in mid-2014.
''When we decided to suspend construction, it was in the context of being very unsure of what was happening in the financial world and when leasing velocity would pick back up,'' said Douglas T. Linde, the president and chief financial officer of Boston Properties. 
Plans to build the skyscraper, designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, are the latest sign that after three years of tenants ruling the roost, landlords are retaking control of the commercial real estate market. Other signs of a shift include reduced concessions for tenants and higher rents. And, in a few cases, landlords are rejecting deals with some large tenants to sign even larger ones.
But experts warn that some of the leasing activity is from companies that are relocating or even consolidating after layoffs. Tenants need not fear a spike in rents in the coming months, these people say, but neither should they expect to see rents fall if they wait before signing a lease.
Real estate brokers and landlords say employment growth is the critical reason behind the market shift. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, some 140,000 jobs were lost in New York City in the recession. Around 61,000 have since returned, and of those, about three-quarters are office jobs. Some of this has been reflected in leasing activity, with the absorption rate, or the amount of space that was leased versus put on the market, totaling roughly one million square feet last year, according to data from Cushman & Wakefield.
In the first quarter of this year the vacancy rate in Class A buildings in Midtown Manhattan was 12.8 percent, according to Jones Lang LaSalle, compared with 13.9 percent in the first quarter of last year. And in the tower floors of the most desirable Midtown buildings, the rate is closer to 4 percent, said Peter G. Riguardi, the president of New York operations at Jones Lang LaSalle.
While the overall Midtown vacancy rate remains far above equilibrium, considered to be 7 percent to 10 percent, the market is often ''pulled up from the top,'' said Mitchell S. Steir, the chief executive of the real estate services company Studley, which represents tenants.
''During the last up cycle, it was the class A space users like hedge funds and private equity firms that pulled up pricing prematurely, and landlords were able to make it stick.''
Steven M. Durels, the director for leasing at the SL Green Realty Corporation, said landlords had reduced their free rent for office space that must be built out to eight or 10 months from 12 months, which had been more common in recent years. In space that is already built, free rent is now two to three months instead of six months.
''You used to see landlords contribute $75 to $80 a square foot for buildouts, but now we are capping that at $60,'' said Mr. Durels, adding that other changes included smaller security deposits and greater annual rent increases.
And in the last several months some large tenants that had been negotiating with landlords were bumped when even larger tenants came along.
Wells Fargo, which is consolidating its offices, was negotiating for roughly 300,000 square feet at 120 Park Avenue, across from Grand Central Terminal, when Bloomberg L.P. swooped in and signed a lease for 402,000 square feet. The bank, which brokers say is close to signing a lease at 150 East 42nd Street, declined to comment.
Another negotiation was disrupted when the accounting firm Deloitte signed a lease for 436,000 square feet at 30 Rockefeller Plaza. At the time, the building's landlord had been in talks to renew a lease with the law firm Chadbourne & Parke. Deloitte, which will be vacating more than 500,000 square feet at 2 World Financial Center, is redesigning its office use to be more space efficient.
''You hear a lot about tenants getting bumped, but some part of this is just the hype that gets created by brokers and owners,'' said Barry M. Gosin, the chief executive of Newmark Knight Frank. ''The market is improved, but people are driven by emotion and what they are told. There is really more of a balance than what landlords would like to see.''
Marisa Manley, who represents tenants as the president of Commercial Tenant Real Estate Representation, also warned about hype that drives up rents. ''New York City has regained about 40 percent of the jobs it lost since the start of the recession,'' she said, ''but that means it is still down 60 percent.''
And while a lot of focus is placed on prime Midtown buildings and large blocks of space, a vast number of companies in New York City -- as much as 40 percent according to the research company CoStar Group -- lease less than 2,500 square feet, and for them it is still a tenants' market, Ms. Manley said.
Still, the signs have given hope to landlords that may be sitting on hundreds of thousands of square feet of vacant space. SL Green recently acquired an equity stake in 3 Columbus Circle, a building that had been the focus of an ownership struggle between the Related Companies and Joseph Moinian, the financially troubled landlord. With the help of SL Green, Mr. Moinian wrested control and now they are working to lease the largely vacant tower.
With asking rents ranging from $60 a square foot in the base to $80 a square foot in the tower, 3 Columbus Circle is priced competitively to similar buildings. So far there are two proposals out on the upper floors and one for a ''very large'' block of space in the base, Mr. Durels of said.
''I hadn't expected to land my first tenant before the end of the year,'' he said, ''but seeing this much activity this early in the process is another great sign that the market is turning for the best.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steven M. Durels, the director for leasing at SL Green Realty, which acquired an equity stake in 3 Columbus Circle, above, says there is a lot of activity, and he believes the market is improving. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); LEASING INDUSTRY (88%); LAYOFFS (87%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LAWYERS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); STATISTICS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); PRIVATE EQUITY (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: JONES LANG LASALLE INC (58%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (56%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (55%)

TICKER: JLL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (55%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



687 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Retooled Mets at Fraction of the Cost

BYLINE: By DAVID WALDSTEIN

 BODY:
VIERA, Fla. -- For the first time since March 6, and for only the second time in spring training, Carlos Beltran played in a Grapefruit League game Tuesday, signaling he is ready to rejoin the Mets and open the season in right field.
But the team he comes back to will be far different from the one he finished last season with. A new front office has taken over the Mets and remade the roster with a dozen players acquired at discount prices. 
The turnover includes 11 or 12 players, depending on the health of the backup catcher Ronny Paulino, whose combined salaries are less than that of pitcher Oliver Perez, who was released March 21 with $12 million remaining on his salary and barely more than half of what Beltran ($18.5 million) will make in the final year of his contract.
Spending just $10,873,000, a budget-conscious group of executives led by General Manager Sandy Alderson revamped half the roster, including the back end of the starting rotation, the bulk of the bullpen and virtually all of the bench.
''We haven't played well the last couple of years,'' Mets third baseman David Wright said. ''When you don't win, it means there's going to be some turnover. For us, there's been a lot of turnover, and I think they've done an excellent job of bringing in not only good players, but quality people as well.''
Alderson came to the Mets with a reputation for seeking maximum return from undervalued players, and said after he was hired that the team's payroll was too high and that he intended to bring it down permanently. Since then, the Mets' severe financial struggles have been revealed, but Alderson has never stated that the Mets' debt problems were driving his strategy, although it would seem to have played a role. Regardless, he has not spent much.
Having taken over a team last fall with $135 million already committed for the 2011 payroll -- depending on incentive clauses, trades and other roster moves (Jason Bay could be placed on the disabled list with a strained left rib-cage muscle) -- Alderson was committed to filling out the roster with extreme fiscal restraint.
Theoretically, he could have spent as little as $4,968,000 for 12 players making the minimum. He ended up spending a little more than twice that, which is still less than half of the $22.5 million the injured Johan Santana -- the team's highest-paid player -- will make this season.
''You can do it for that amount of money,'' Alderson said of the $10.8 million he did spend. ''The question is, how good are the players coming in? Right now, we think that our guys have performed pretty well.''
The most money Alderson guaranteed to any one player acquired from outside the organization was $1.5 million for the No. 5 starter Chris Capuano. Of the 12 new players who are expected to spend time on the 25-man roster (including Paulino), half of them are guaranteed less than $1 million for 2011.
In looking for bargains, Alderson first addressed his biggest need -- the rotation -- by finding pitchers still coming back from arm surgery who were intent on demonstrating that they were now durable and deserving of bigger contracts a year from now. In a sense, the Mets would be the hosts of a season-long audition.
Those pitchers turned out to be Capuano, who had Tommy John elbow surgery in 2009, and Chris Young, who made three starts for San Diego last September after he had shoulder surgery in 2009. Young signed with the Mets for a $1.1 million base salary. Alderson enticed both pitchers in part by stressing that their auditions would be enhanced in a pitcher-friendly park like Citi Field. And both pitched well this spring, with earned run averages less than 2.50.
As for the bullpen, Alderson found five new relievers, including one selected in the Rule 5 draft. Their cost: D. J. Carrasco ($1.2 million), Taylor Buchholz ($1 million), Tim Byrdak ($900,000), Blaine Boyer ($725,000) and the Rule 5 draftee Pedro Beato ($414,000). Their combined salaries are $4,239,000, or less than half the amount owed to closer Francisco Rodriguez, who is guaranteed $11.5 million.
The only starting position player Alderson sought was a second baseman to replace Luis Castillo. That ended up being another Rule 5 pick, Brad Emaus, who, like Beato, will also make baseball's minimum. Paulino, who will probably start the season on the disabled list with an unspecified digestive illness, was signed for $1.3 million.
''When we sat down in November to talk about our roster, we weren't really happy with a lot of spots,'' Alderson said. ''We did an analysis of above the line, and below the line, of players we were happy with, and said these are areas we think we can improve. We end up opening day with a 50 percent turnover.''
Still, the season will depend largely on players who were signed by former general managers like Steve Phillips, who was there when Wright was drafted in 2001 and when Jose Reyes was signed in 1999, or Omar Minaya, who was responsible for the big money given to Bay, Santana, Rodriguez and Beltran and for the drafting of Ike Davis and Josh Thole.
Beltran went 1 for 3 on Tuesday and made a nice sliding catch in right field, but whether his knees will hold up under the rigors of the regular season remains to be seen. He spoke confidently about the Mets' everyday lineup: ''We're going to surprise people, that's for sure.''
Maybe so, maybe not. The real surprise so far is how economically the team has been turned over.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carlos Beltran, expected to play opening day, will join a team with a different look from 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11)
 Carlos Beltran made a sliding catch in right in only his second spring training game for the Mets. How long his knees will hold up remains a concern. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B12) CHART: The New Mets Math: Carlos Beltran, right, is making $18.5 million this season. Many new members of the team are making far less. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUDGETS (74%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



688 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: Fiesta Bowl's Spending Attracts Scrutiny

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

 BODY:
Top executives at the Fiesta Bowl funneled campaign contributions to local politicians, flew other Arizona elected officials around the country at the bowl's expense, racked up a $1,200 bill at a strip club and even spent $30,000 on a birthday party for the chief executive, according to an investigative report commissioned by the bowl's board of directors.
The most serious revelations involve nearly a dozen employees who told investigators that the chief executive and others working for the bowl, the host of one of the nation's pre-eminent college football games, encouraged them to make political contributions, then reimbursed them with sham bonus payments. Some said they were then pressured to lie about the practice.
The investigators do not make conclusions about whether bowl executives or others broke the law, but at least one expert in nonprofit organizations said the findings could lead to criminal charges. At a minimum, the investigation may threaten the tax-exempt status of the bowl, which, like most other prominent organizations in college sports, is formally registered as a charity. 
Some aspects of the campaign contribution scheme were reported by The Arizona Republic in 2009, prompting an initial inquiry by the board of directors as well as an investigation by Arizona's state attorney general. Tom Horne, the attorney general, said in a statement that the report, which has been presented to his office, will assist his office in its continuing investigation.
John Junker, the chief executive of the Fiesta Bowl, refused to speak with the most recent set of investigators about the campaign reimbursements and was placed on administrative leave in February. The Fiesta Bowl announced his firing Tuesday in a press release and said it would enact reforms aimed at improving oversight and transparency. A bowl spokesman confirmed Tuesday that Natalie Wisneski, the chief operating officer, and Jay Fields, the vice president for marketing, had resigned.
The report was made public Tuesday after The New York Times published an online article about the investigation's findings. Many of the people cited in it either would not comment or did not respond to messages seeking comment.
The findings are all but certain to further arm critics of college football's bowl system, which many argue has become overly commercialized and thus more vulnerable to corruption. Playoff PAC, a political action group taking aim at the Bowl Championship Series, filed a complaint with the Internal Revenue Service last fall against the Fiesta, Sugar and Orange Bowls.
The Fiesta Bowl, the youngest of the four B.C.S. bowls, was founded in 1971 and has hosted seven games that have decided the national championship, including the B.C.S. title game in January. The four nonprofits that run the bowl took in nearly $28 million in revenue in 2009, most of it earned through ticket sales and corporate sponsorships, according to federal tax records.
Bowl Championship Series officials said Tuesday they were ''deeply disappointed'' to learn of the findings and said they had appointed a task force to evaluate whether the Fiesta Bowl should remain a B.C.S. game. ''It is expected that all parties contracted with the B.C.S. will live up to the highest standards,'' the statement said. ''We do not wish to be associated with entities that believe otherwise.''
The Fiesta Bowl executives did not limit their political activity to campaign contributions. The Fiesta Bowl sometimes paid to cater political fund-raisers at the Fiesta Bowl Museum, including one in 2007 for State Representative Jim Weiers, who was then the speaker of the Arizona House of Representatives, and one in 2009 for W. J. Lane, the mayor of Scottsdale, who is known as Jim. Junker apparently knew that hosting such events was forbidden because he warned his assistant against sending out invitations using a Fiesta Bowl e-mail address, the report said.
In a telephone interview, Lane said that Fiesta Bowl officials offered to hold the event but that he did not know who paid for it. If the bowl paid, he said, ''it's not something we generally would be involved in.''
The report highlighted several trips to Chicago, Boston and elsewhere that the Fiesta Bowl hosted for several Arizona politicians and their families. Anthony Aguilar, the Fiesta Bowl's director of community and corporate relations, told investigators that the trips were meant to show legislators the importance of college football to the Arizona economy.
A beneficiary of the trips was Russell Pearce, the State Senate president, a Republican who has gained a national profile over the past year for writing Arizona's controversial immigration law. Pearce and his wife, LuAnne, traveled to Chicago in 2005 to attend a Northwestern-Michigan game and stayed at the Ritz-Carlton. He and his wife also traveled to Boston on a similar trip with his son in 2008, according to the report.
Pearce did not return three calls for comment.
Angela Holt, one of the bowl's financial officers, told investigators she had found no documentation to show that the politicians had reimbursed the bowl for the cost of the trips.
The report does not say what the bowl sought with its favors to the elected officials, beyond good will among people of local prominence.
Junker and other top executives used bowl money to spend lavishly, investigators found. In 2008, the Fiesta Bowl paid the $1,200 bill at a Phoenix strip club attended by Junker; Shawn Schoeffler, the former vice president for media relations; and Aaron Brown, a Maricopa County sheriff's lieutenant who owns a company that provides security to the Fiesta Bowl.
According to the report, Junker explained to investigators: ''We are in the business where big, strong athletes are known to attend these types of establishments. It was important for us to visit, and we certainly conducted business.''
Some of the expenses appeared to be personal in nature. Last year, Junker's daughter, Lucy, was seeking admission and was accepted to the honors program at the University of Texas. The Fiesta Bowl paid $75 to send flowers to the head of the honors admissions program.
It also appears to have paid $13,000 in connection with the wedding of Junker's assistant, Kelly Keogh, covering her airfare and hotel on her honeymoon to British Columbia. It also paid to fly Junker, his wife, son and at least six Fiesta Bowl employees to her wedding in Kansas City, Mo.
In the case of a 50th birthday celebration given by the Fiesta Bowl for Junker in Pebble Beach, Calif., in 2005, investigators found that the bowl spent more than $33,000 on the party, including airfare for Junker and other top executives, car rentals, meals and lodging. A lawyer for Junker said investigators never asked his client about a birthday party or flowers. Junker said that others gave him the party and that he believed the board of directors had approved the expense. As for the flowers, he said the bowl's reimbursement must have been a mix-up.
The board of directors initiated the most recent investigation last fall and hired Christopher W. Madel, a lawyer with Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi in Minneapolis, to oversee it.
The report uncovered many new details about the campaign contribution practice. Most of the contributions were to Arizona state lawmakers and local city councilors, although Junker and his wife, Susan, were reimbursed for two contributions totaling $4,200 to Senator John McCain of Arizona in 2007, investigators found.
The report outlined several ways in which executives at the bowl attempted to disguise the reimbursements. Wisneski, the chief operating officer, told investigators that Junker would instruct her to also give bonuses to employees who had not donated. For those who had made contributions, Junker asked her to give them a false explanation of why they were receiving a bonus, ''but I couldn't face it,'' she said in an interview excerpted in the report. ''I had a hard time doing it.''
Several of the employees who admitted to being repaid said they did not know the practice could be illegal until after the fact. Peggy Eyanson, the director of business operations, told investigators that when she learned that employees could face prison time, she felt ''scared, upset and sick to my stomach.''
Investigators also raised questions about an initial inquiry that was conducted by the Fiesta Bowl in December 2009, which concluded there was no credible evidence of campaign reimbursements. The board hired Grant Woods, a former Arizona attorney general, to conduct the investigation, but asked that it be completed quickly, before the Fiesta Bowl game took place in January. Woods hired as his assistant Gary Husk, a lobbyist who had been working for the bowl and who, investigators now say, had played a key role in collecting political contributions from employees.
Six Fiesta Bowl employees later told investigators that Husk approached them before their interviews and discussed the issue of campaign contributions with them. Wisneski told investigators that Husk invited her to his house and coached her on how to answer the questions that Woods would ask.
Husk denied any knowledge of the reimbursements and said he never discussed the issue with the employees or steered employees away from Woods, according to the report. In a statement Tuesday, Husk said he had fully cooperated with the most recent investigation and had done nothing wrong. ''My integrity is extremely important to me, and I would never do anything to jeopardize it.''
Woods has since said he believes he may have been misled during his initial investigation.
In a statement, he said: ''The Fiesta Bowl Committee's investigation this time was comprehensive and I fully expect that they will fire anyone who has lied to or misled them or me. I will continue to work with them under our attorney-client relationship and am confident that they will quickly restore order and move on to even more success in the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Junker, at right with Boise State Coach Chris Petersen in 2009, was fired Tuesday as the chief executive of the Fiesta Bowl. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL CONNORS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B11)
 Oklahoma and Connecticut met in January in the Fiesta Bowl game, which was founded in 1971. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN PETERSEN/GETTY IMAGES) (B16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (88%); TAX LAW (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (67%); TICKET SALES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



689 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANT REVIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: A Crosstown Tour of India

BYLINE: By SAM SIFTON

 BODY:
TWO new Indian restaurants have joined the Manhattan fray, competitors for a place in the upper castes of the city's Indian fine-dining scene. Junoon rises lush and enormous off a dark stretch of West 24th Street, an Indian restaurant remade as a luxe Western palace, with a marvelous wine list and perfect rye manhattans. Tulsi glitters bright and almost romantic on East 46th Street across the street from Sparks, a Midtown bet on a great chef's talent.
Hemant Mathur is the force behind Tulsi. He was an owner and a chef at the pretty, bejeweled Devi, in the Flatiron district, where he often could be seen fussing nervously at the edges of the dining room before retreating to the kitchen to cook with rare brilliance. At Tulsi he does the same dance and, if the setting is less attractive, louder, less special than at his former restaurant, it places his cooking in sharper relief. 
No one in New York makes lamb chops like Mr. Mathur -- heavy, ugly things caked in yogurt but tasting of gamy perfection -- and it is a relief to know that he has brought that entree north with him. His Manchurian cauliflower has made the transition as well: a magical dish, sweet and fiery, worth ordering in multiples even at a small table, so everyone present can thrill to its sweet and heat, and guess at the secret ingredient (spoiler: it's ketchup, well caramelized over the fried cornstarch batter).
He serves a wickedly fine duck moilee -- a delicate coastal curry softened by coconut milk -- and a deeply flavorful curried monkfish with pomegranate sauce, the spices within each dish rendered distinct and powerful in the cooking. And there are very good tandoori prawns, courtesy of one of Mr. Mathur's partners in this enterprise, the chef Dhandu Ram, whom older students may remember from his time at Bukhara Grill. Roasted to crispness, the prawns emerge from the tandoor sweetly juicy within, a lovely match for the okra that comes with them, and tingling eggplant chutney.
Tulsi's vegetable dishes do not disappoint either, most notably the house dal, simmered until its primary ingredients, lentils and clarified butter, appear to become one: a creamy yogurt made of legumes.
The breads, in particular a rich and salty rosemary-garlic naan, perform marvels alongside the food. There is even a soft ginger panna cotta for dessert, from Mr. Mathur's wife, Surbhi Sahni, to undercut the notion that all Indian sweets must be wickedly so, as if to make up for the heat of the entrees.
Too bad, then, that Tulsi's lighting is harsh, and that the service style runs more to chain-restaurant gab than anything approaching the hushed, pajama-clad grace of Devi. Too bad, too, that behind its warm and comfortable bar, the restaurant opens into a bazaar of tables more reminiscent of Home Depot's patio furniture department than anything filmed by Merchant-Ivory. It is not a particularly enjoyable place to eat dinner. The floating curtains between tables have the stiffness not of silk but of polyester. They look itchy. And under that light, only a few people can look good.
AT Junoon, just west of Madison Square Park, everyone looks good. Little expense has been spared to make sure that this is the case. The restaurant is lighted as if by softly glowing amber. The teak lounge furnishings and long bar up front might have been pulled straight off the floor at ABC Carpet & Home. And the enormous dining room, at once airy and filled with deeply upholstered chairs and banquettes, features both large sandstone sculptures and a steel reflecting pool in which float lotus blossoms under candlelight.
Rajesh Bhardwaj, the Cafe Spice tycoon, is the founder and chief executive of this restaurant, now his glittery flagship. Sommeliers wheel linen-covered wine carts about the dining room with quiet efficiency, and the conversation bubbles along at a hushed level, as at an old-line Italian or French establishment. Imagine a kind of dream-state Del Posto, the sort of restaurant where of course you would order a 2006 Valpolicella Grassi with your monkfish tikka.
Never mind knowing why this is so. (But it is so!) Ask one of those sommeliers for advice, at whatever price you consider comfortable. Junoon's cellar has within it much to injure the belief that the best accompaniment to Indian food is beer.
In the open kitchen is Vikas Khanna, late of Salaam Bombay and numerous television appearances. His menu offers a wide-ranging examination of Indian cuisine, divided not by region but cooking style.
It is, over all, very good. The tandoor dishes are delicate beneath their crusts: sweet lobster under a cloak of cumin, cayenne and lemon, with ground fennel; venison amped up on ginger and nutmeg. A lentil soup -- three-lentil shorba, it's called here -- rides silky in its elegant bowl, enlivened by cilantro, over a seat of fresh turmeric.
Lamb is given a wonderful send-off by the patthar, a style in which the meat is cooked on hot stones. Even better are the curries, in particular the grilled eggplant, and a rich and fragrant duck version with an enormous amount of Tellicherry pepper to counterbalance the richness of the meat, along with a faint hum of tamarind, a zing of curry leaves.
The restaurant's desserts are as good as they are few in number, with but three options above the traditional kulfi and (less traditional) sorbet. The best of these is a date pudding cake held together with caramel, cranberries and streusel, and an orange-buttermilk ice cream. It is rich and smoky, with a creamy tang, amazing: Brahmin food that recalls Boston more than Bengal.
Junoon is comfortable and elegant, almost more than the two Tamarind restaurants, in the Flatiron and in TriBeCa, to which it will inevitably be compared. Its design and service style hint at the kind of European-style sumptuousness that used to be common to upscale restaurants in Manhattan, at least before the recession removed tablecloths and quiet from so many of our dining rooms.
It is a very nice place to spend a few hours, dressed and dining and drinking well. Tulsi may indeed offer a slightly more attractive bill of fare. But restaurants are always about more than simply the food.
Tulsi
Rating: 1 star
211 East 46th Street, Midtown; (212) 888-0820, tulsinyc.com.
ATMOSPHERE A well-intentioned suburban feel, in the heart of Midtown.
SOUND LEVEL Raised voices are unnecessary.
RECOMMENDED DISHES Manchurian cauliflower, butter chicken, tandoor lamb chops, duck moilee, ginger panna cotta.
WINE LIST Here is your chardonnay, your Napa cab. Better is a bottle of 1947, an Indian lager.
PRICE RANGE Appetizers, $7 to $14; entrees, $16 to $34.
HOURS Lunch: Monday to Saturday, noon to 2:30 p.m. Dinner: 5:30 to 10:30 p.m.; Sunday, 5 to 10 p.m.
RESERVATIONS Recommended at least one week ahead.
CREDIT CARDS All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS The bar, dining room and restrooms are all on one level, and aisles are reasonably wide. Restrooms are large.
WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.
Junoon
Rating: 2 stars
27 West 24th Street, Flatiron; (212) 490-2100, junoonnyc.com.
ATMOSPHERE Opulent, warm and comfortable.
SOUND LEVEL Hushed and self-satisfied.
RECOMMENDED DISHES Three-lentil shorba, piri-piri shrimp, lobster tandoori, monkfish tikka, duck with Tellicherry pepper, grilled eggplant curry, date pudding cake.
WINE LIST Extensive, interesting and well worth discussing with a sommelier. Roussillon with the eggplant? Why, um, sure!
PRICE RANGE Appetizers, $10 to $15; entrees, $16 to $33.
HOURS Lunch: Monday to Friday, noon to 3 p.m. Dinner: Sunday to Thursday, 5:30 to 10:30 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, to 11 p.m.
RESERVATIONS Recommended at least one week ahead.
CREDIT CARDS All major cards.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS The bar and dining room are at street level, and there is plenty of space between tables.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE DIMMER SWITCH: Tulsi, above, turns up the lights, while Junoon glows softly and warmly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DONNA ALBERICO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



690 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Galleon Worker Tells Of Firm's Insider Trades

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Despite his impeccable pedigree, Adam Smith still thought he needed an edge on Wall Street.
A Boston native, Mr. Smith earned undergraduate and business degrees from Harvard. At the peak of the dot-com boom in 1999, he landed a prestigious post as a technology banker at Morgan Stanley. Three years later, Raj Rajaratnam invited Mr. Smith to join his firm, the Galleon Group, which was considered one of the industry's elite hedge funds.
But Mr. Smith, in Federal District Court on Tuesday, described how he helped Mr. Rajaratnam add to his prodigious wealth by trading on illegal stock tips. 
''I was tasked with doing research, getting an edge,'' said Mr. Smith, the first former Galleon employee to testify in the insider trading case against Mr. Rajaratnam.
Mr. Smith, who has pleaded guilty, faces up to 25 years in prison. But by cooperating with the government in its case, he hopes to obtain a lesser sentence. Mr. Smith, 39, wearing wire-rimmed glasses, a Hermes tie and oxfords, told the jury how he routinely bought and sold shares of technology companies based on inside information gleaned from contacts in Asia and the Silicon Valley.
Azam Ahmed and Guilbert Gates/The New York Times Click on the above graphic to get a visual overview of the Galleon information network
''I shared it with Raj,'' Mr. Smith said multiple times on the witness stand, explaining that whenever he received confidential information about a company, he passed it on to his boss.
Mr. Smith took the jury through six vignettes involving technology companies like Intel and Advanced Micro Devices.
In one incident, he described developing a relationship with an executive in Taiwan who worked at Intersil, a semiconductor company. Once a quarter, Mr. Smith traveled to Taiwan to meet with the executive, Jason Lin.
The two initially discussed industry issues and ''more qualitative types of information,'' Mr. Smith said. Over time, Mr. Smith said that he asked Mr. Lin to be more specific, and eventually Mr. Lin started giving him Intersil's quarterly revenue numbers in advance of the company's public announcement.
Andrew Michaelson, the prosecutor, asked Mr. Smith why he trafficked in inside information.
''I was getting an edge on a company,'' Mr. Smith said. ''My motivation was to improve the profitability of my firm and to help Raj.''
Mr. Michaelson asked Mr. Smith to define ''an edge.''
Mr. Smith said ''an edge'' was a source that provided insights into buying or selling a stock that would vary from the Wall Street consensus.
''It's the key component to arbitraging consensus, which was essentially our strategy,'' he said. ''Whenever an event would occur that would vary from consensus, we would want an edge.''
Mr. Lin's information helped Mr. Smith in his research on Intersil. It would help ''build my Excel model,'' Mr. Smith explained.
When Mr. Michaelson asked Mr. Smith if he also did actual security analysis on Intersil, Mr. Smith said that he did, adding that he really did not consider the confidential revenue numbers provided by Mr. Lin to be legitimate research.
''Getting the number is more like cheating on the test,'' Mr. Smith said.
Mr. Michaelson continued, ''Did you do your homework on Intersil?''
''Yes,'' Mr. Smith said.
''Did you also cheat on the test?''
''Yes,'' Mr. Smith said.
Mr. Smith also said he received advance word on merger deals from a former investment banking colleague at Morgan Stanley. He testified that the banker, Kamal Ahmed, told him about Integrated Device Technology's planned acquisition of Integrated Circuit Systems in 2005.
The jury was shown an e-mail from Mr. Smith to Mr. Rajaratnam from March 2005 with the subject line ''The two eyes,'' which was code for the two companies that each began with the letter ''I.'' The e-mail read: ''I had a chance to update and we are still on track.'' A subsequent e-mail updating Mr. Rajaratnam had the subject line ''Eyes'' and said, ''Game on.''
When the deal was announced in June 2005, Mr. Smith said he had a tinge of regret about his misdeeds.
''I was concerned that I had been responsible at least in part for Galleon being involved in a stock trade based on inside information,'' Mr. Smith said. ''I remember after the announcement having a sinking feeling in my stomach that this might be a problem, but the reality of it caused me to reflect, and I had a moment of worry.''
But, Mr. Smith added, ''No one spoke to me about it so I moved on.''
Although Mr. Smith was serious during his testimony, his wit was on display when the government showed a series of incriminating instant-message exchanges between Mr. Smith and a Galleon colleague. Mr. Smith's instant-message user name was ''smithinvshand'' - an apparent reference to another Adam Smith, the 18th-century economist who coined the phrase ''invisible hand.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SENTENCING (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); WITNESSES (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); SEMICONDUCTORS (66%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); AMD (NYSE) (54%); AMD (FRA) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (92%); RAJ RAJARATNAM (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (90%); ASIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



691 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 57 words

HEADLINE: CORRECTION

 BODY:
An editorial on Feb. 25 about rising food prices misstated the amount of American aid to help poor countries boost food production. It has committed $570 million toward its pledge of $3.5 billion in new aid between 2010 and 2012. A World Bank fund that got $66 million from the United States will only administer part of the global aid effort. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOOD PRICES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



692 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: The High Price of Rigidity: House Republicans won't compromise on the budget, hastening a shutdown

 BODY:
House Republicans have already won so much in this year's federal budget standoff that they could easily declare victory and put an end to the maddening and dysfunctional cycle. Previous Congresses would have noticed that millions of people are still struggling in an economic downturn and tried to help, but Republicans have succeeded in shutting off that conversation. 
They have won the philosophical war, compelling Democrats to agree to tens of billions in spending cuts. Yet that does not seem to be enough for the Republicans who now control the federal steering wheel.
With a hard deadline looming, talks to prevent a government shutdown have been stymied for a week because Tea Party members of the House have demanded everything: not just some of their cuts but almost all of them, and not just a reduction in spending but a reduction only in the programs they don't like. Many are insisting Democrats also agree to nonbudgetary riders, like ending the financing of Planned Parenthood or health care reform.
They simply will not accede to anything that looks like a compromise with President Obama. Caught in this position, Speaker John Boehner knows the public is likely to blame Republicans for the pain of a shutdown, once it sees that the Democrats offered difficult compromises that his caucus rejected. That is the price he pays for riding to power on the backs of people who don't understand that government cannot be built out of ideological rigidity.
If Mr. Boehner cannot persuade his members that the public does not want a government shutdown and will blame them, then much of the government will close its doors on April 8, when the current stopgap funding measure runs out. So far, the Republicans have wrung $10 billion in cuts from earlier deadlines, but their bill to butcher the current year's budget with $61 billion in radical cuts was voted down in the Senate.
Democrats have put together a package of $20 billion in cuts, on top of the $10 billion already agreed to. They have not released the details, but officials say they could include some current spending and some mandatory programs, like agriculture subsidies. This package is likely to be far more painful than the last one and will almost certainly pull back the reins much further than is prudent when the economic recovery is still sputtering. But in the split-the-difference culture of Washington, it will get them halfway toward the Republican goal line, further than imaginable just a few weeks ago.
Does that mean the House will end the week-by-week bloodletting that is already hampering many federal agencies? So far the signs do not look promising. Republicans have told Democratic negotiators that the cuts can only come from their original, rejected bill. Many are still clinging to the ideological riders that will certainly draw a presidential veto. One way or the other, Tea Party lawmakers are about to learn a lesson in how government operates; the only question is whether the public must suffer for their education.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); HOME PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (79%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CAUCUSES (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); POLITICS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (52%); AGRICULTURE (50%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (55%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



693 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (NBC) LAW & ORDER: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT Viewers will have double face time with Jeremy Irons, above, in back-to-back episodes in which he portrays a psychologist with a sordid past and not a little insight into the motivations of sexual predators. In the first case the psychologist offers the detectives assistance in solving the rape of his estranged daughter, who was assaulted by a man wearing a unsettling mask. In the second, at 10, he investigates the murder of a girl found dead with a doll believed to have been left as a totem.
9:30 A.M. (CUNY) CITY TALK ''From Shirtwaist to Wisconsin: Labor Unions and the American Worker,'' a two-part special repeated at 4:30 and 9:30 p.m., explores why unions, which advanced as a result of the fire at the Triangle shirtwaist factory and are at the core of the creation of America's working class, are now increasingly being viewed as ''the enemy.'' Ed Ott, the former executive director of the New York City Central Labor Council; Arthur Cheliotes, president of the Communications Workers of America Local 1180; and the historian Joshua Freeman offer insight. 
8 P.M. (Fox) AMERICAN IDOL The finalists perform songs from the 1980s.
8 P.M. (CW) AMERICA'S NEXT TOP MODELTyra Banks -- now at Harvard Business School, where she lives in a dorm -- tutors contestants in the art of handling fame. At the photo shoot the women pose slathered in mud. Sonia Dara -- the first Indian-American to model in the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue and an economics major at Harvard -- is the guest judge.
8:30 P.M. (ABC Family) CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY (2005) Tim Burton's sugar rush, based on Roald Dahl's book, stars Johnny Depp, far left, as an oddly sinister candy maker and Freddie Highmore, center, with David Kelly, as a boy who wants nothing more than to swim in chocolate. Well, who wouldn't?
9 P.M. (13, 49) JAPAN'S KILLER QUAKE ''Nova'' uses reporting, personal stories, eyewitness videos and computer animation to give scientific context to the March 11 earthquake in Japan and the resulting tsunami and nuclear threat.
9 P.M. (History) SECRET ACCESS: THE VATICANThis two-hour special delves into the inner workings of the Vatican -- from the secret archives and the Swiss Guards protecting the pope to a cemetery that includes what are thought to be the remains of St. Peter.
9:30 P.M. (TMC) THE MYSTERIES OF PITTSBURGH (2008) In this adaptation of Michael Chabon's 1988 coming-of-age novel, Jon Foster plays Art Bechstein, a stockbroker in training bogged down in joyless relationships with the manager (Mena Suvari) of the discount bookstore where he works, and his father (Nick Nolte), a gangster who wants his son to be respectable. Then Art encounters a debutante (Sienna Miller) and her ne'er-do-well, bisexual boyfriend (Peter Sarsgaard). His name is Cleveland -- ''Like the state?'' asks Ms. Suvari's character. Writing in The New York Times, A. O. Scott called this adaptation ''clumsy and confused.'' By the end of the film, Mr. Scott added, even viewers who share the director's admiration for the book ''may leave the theater wondering what he saw in it.''
10 P.M. (13) PLAN B: MOBILIZING TO SAVE CIVILIZATIONMatt Damon narrates this installment of ''Journey to Planet Earth,'' filmed by Marilyn and Hal Weiner and based on the book ''Plan B 4.0'' by the environmentalist Lester R. Brown, who maintains that the human race must confront climate change or suffer the consequences of lost societies. The components of Mr. Brown's plan: cut carbon emissions 80 percent by 2020; stabilize population at no more than eight billion; eradicate poverty; and restore the earth's ecosystems. The catch: the components must move forward simultaneously to be effective. Those interviewed include former Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt, and Paul Krugman and Thomas L. Friedman, columnists for The New York Times.
10 P.M. (Bravo) TOP CHEF ALL-STARS In this Season 8 finale the contestants try to create an ideal meal before the winner is announced.
10 P.M. (Discovery) SOUTH BEACH CLASSICS At Ted Vernon Specialty Automobiles in Miami, Mr. Vernon and his wife, Robin, are as colorful as the cars they sell with the help of the employees they've nicknamed the Gargoyles. Their clients range from high school students to professional athletes; their prices, from a few thousand dollars to more than $1 million. The series begins as a storm wreaks havoc on the 300 automobiles on their lot. KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIRGINIA SHERWOOD/NBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (88%); TSUNAMIS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); EARTHQUAKES (78%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (77%); MURDER (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); HISTORY (72%); FACTORY FIRES (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (64%); PHOTOGRAPHY (64%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); RELIGION (60%); ANIMATION (50%)

PERSON: JOHNNY DEPP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); HOLY SEE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



694 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: As Regulators Weigh AT&T Bid, a Look at Wireless Markets Abroad

BYLINE: By JENNA WORTHAM and KEVIN J. O'BRIEN; Bettina Wassener and Sei Chong contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For Americans, complaining about big cellphone bills that seem to only get bigger is standard practice. But they may actually be getting a pretty good deal -- globally speaking.
While cellphone customers in the United States tend to pay more every month than consumers in other developed countries, they get more for their money in terms of voice and data use.
For example, Americans pay an average of 4 cents for a minute of talk time, while Canadians and the British pay more than twice that, according to recent data from Merrill Lynch and Bank of America. In Japan, where the top three wireless carriers control 97 percent of the market, locals pay 22 cents a minute.
''Pricing is what sets the U.S. apart from the rest of the world,'' said Sam Paltridge, an analyst at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. ''Americans spend less than average on communications.'' 
The question for regulators in Washington is how AT&T's $39 billion bid to buy T-Mobile might change that. Analysts and industry experts worry that the deal could hurt consumers, in particular by eliminating T-Mobile's low-cost phone plans. Some are urging regulators to block the acquisition, which would leave two major companies, AT&T and Verizon, with nearly 80 percent of the wireless market, followed by the much smaller Sprint. AT&T has said the merger will benefit consumers, in part by improving network quality and reach.
As they consider the deal, regulators may look abroad to see how competition affects wireless markets. With only three major network operators, the market in the United States would function similarly to some European markets, like France, which also has three operators, said J. Scott Marcus, the former chief technology officer at the telecommunications company GTE and former Internet policy adviser at the Federal Communications Commission.
''It will definitely become an oligopoly market,'' Mr. Marcus said. ''That will be less good than what one had before, but not awful.''
Of course, using other countries as a guide to how consolidation may play out is tricky, because every market is shaped by local cultural and business factors.
In Japan, for example, the average amount that consumers spend on data is the highest in the developed world -- but not because of a lack of competition in the mobile industry. Japanese cellphone owners like to do a lot of browsing on their cellphones, and they are prepared to pay for that, said Steven Hartley, an analyst at Ovum, a research firm in London. Mr. Hartley said over 40 percent of mobile operators' revenue in Japan comes from data services, compared with 25 percent in the United States.
Americans tend to talk nearly twice as much as people in most other developed countries, which led to the popularity of bigger buckets of voice minutes. And plans that offer nationwide calling with no roaming fees have also kept prices low. In Europe, which in theory is one market but is actually divided into many smaller national markets, roaming charges are a frequent and bothersome reality.
Europeans and Asians were quicker than Americans to embrace so-called prepaid phone service, in which customers do not have a contract and pay for chunks of voice minutes and data capacity as they go. This means phone owners are generally not tied to a single wireless company and have more flexibility to switch among services. Some even carry around multiple SIM cards, the fingernail-size chips that activate a cellphone for use, and decide which one to install based on which offers the cheapest rate for the country they are calling or visiting. For example, someone living in Spain who often visits family in France might purchase SIM cards for wireless services in both countries.
And phone customers outside the United States tend to have more handset choices, since cellphones are less likely to be ''locked'' for use with one particular carrier. But they have fewer opportunities to upgrade cheaply, because carriers are less likely to offer a free or discounted phone to those who commit to a one- or two-year contract.
Some of that is beginning to change, said Chris Jones, an analyst at Canalys. ''Smartphones are beginning to get more popular in the U.K., so more people are buying smartphones and the contracts that come with them,'' he said. Even so, those contracts can cost around $:30 or $:35 a month, or $48 to $56, and they do not include data, he said.
In general, the breadth of options in Europe has not yet led to significantly cheaper service, said Roger Entner, an analyst at Recon Analytics in Dedham, Mass. ''It only drives down prices if competitors are willing to compete on price,'' he said. ''The market is more or less equally divided up, so there isn't the same hypercompetitiveness that we have in the U.S.''
Heike Troue, the director of a public policy institute in Berlin, said that she was satisfied with the range of mobile choices available there. An iPhone 4 owner, she pays T-Mobile 90 euros a month, or $127, for her all-inclusive contract, which provides 1,000 calling minutes, three gigabytes of data transfers and 1,500 text messages. Since she signed up for the plan last November, she has never hit those limits. ''One can only talk so much,'' Ms. Troue said.
At times, high costs abroad have prompted lawmakers and regulators to step in. European and British telecom companies are bowing to such pressure by lowering or planning to lower termination fees -- the fees that the caller's carrier must pay to the recipient's carrier. The goal is to give carriers more flexibility to compete by selling more generous packages with larger chunks of talk time, text allotments and cheaper data services.
European regulators have also ordered that limits be placed on roaming charges for calling and texting, and are working on a similar limit on data roaming charges.
In South Korea, the government has put pressure on the three major carriers -- SK Telecom, KT and LG Telecom -- to cut rates on text messages and calls, and it also limits the amount of subsidies the companies can offer on new phones.
Regulators in the United States could require AT&T to make some concessions for the T-Mobile deal to be approved, like giving up wireless spectrum in some cities. The review by the Justice Department and the F.C.C. could take several months, and analysts say it could be a year before the full effect of the deal is clear. Some analysts say that the combined company might actually lower prices to better compete with Verizon. But others warn of side effects.
Mr. Paltridge of the O.E.C.D said that the overall consequence of combining AT&T and T-Mobile might be broader than most consumers think. For example, it would leave only one American carrier using GSM, the world's most common cellular standard. That means AT&T could raise rates for Americans using their phones overseas and for foreigners visiting the United States.
''If the two merged, there would be an international angle to the competition issue,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A France Telecom store in Paris. In Europe and Japan, clients often pay more for cellphone service than in America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTOINE ANTONIOL/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 Kate Hendry in a T-Mobile store in London, where smartphones and their contracts are becoming more popular. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON ALDEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) CHARTS: Getting More for the Money: Cellphone bills in the United States may be high when compared with those of some countries. But on a per-minute basis, users in this country are getting a bargain. (Source: Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Research) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (75%); CARTELS (74%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); MERGERS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (55%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



695 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Where the Bailout Went Wrong

BYLINE: By NEIL M. BAROFSKY. 
Neil M. Barofsky was the special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program from 2008 until today.

 BODY:
Washington
TWO and a half years ago, Congress passed the legislation that bailed out the country's banks. The government has declared its mission accomplished, calling the program remarkably effective ''by any objective measure.'' On my last day as the special inspector general of the bailout program, I regret to say that I strongly disagree. The bank bailout, more formally called the Troubled Asset Relief Program, failed to meet some of its most important goals.
From the perspective of the largest financial institutions, the glowing assessment is warranted: billions of dollars in taxpayer money allowed institutions that were on the brink of collapse not only to survive but even to flourish. These banks now enjoy record profits and the seemingly permanent competitive advantage that accompanies being deemed ''too big to fail.'' 
Though there is no question that the country benefited by avoiding a meltdown of the financial system, this cannot be the only yardstick by which TARP's legacy is measured. The legislation that created TARP, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, had far broader goals, including protecting home values and preserving homeownership.
These Main Street-oriented goals were not, as the Treasury Department is now suggesting, mere window dressing that needed only to be taken ''into account.'' Rather, they were a central part of the compromise with reluctant members of Congress to cast a vote that in many cases proved to be political suicide.
The act's emphasis on preserving homeownership was particularly vital to passage. Congress was told that TARP would be used to purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, and, to obtain the necessary votes, Treasury promised that it would modify those mortgages to assist struggling homeowners. Indeed, the act expressly directs the department to do just that.
But it has done little to abide by this legislative bargain. Almost immediately, as permitted by the broad language of the act, Treasury's plan for TARP shifted from the purchase of mortgages to the infusion of hundreds of billions of dollars into the nation's largest financial institutions, a shift that came with the express promise that it would restore lending.
Treasury, however, provided the money to banks with no effective policy or effort to compel the extension of credit. There were no strings attached: no requirement or even incentive to increase lending to home buyers, and against our strong recommendation, not even a request that banks report how they used TARP funds. It was only in April of last year, in response to recommendations from our office, that Treasury asked banks to provide that information, well after the largest banks had already repaid their loans. It was therefore no surprise that lending did not increase but rather continued to decline well into the recovery. (In my job as special inspector general I could not bring about the changes I thought were needed -- I could only make recommendations to the Treasury Department.)
Meanwhile, the act's goal of helping struggling homeowners was shelved until February 2009, when the Home Affordable Modification Program was announced with the promise to help up to four million families with mortgage modifications.
That program has been a colossal failure, with far fewer permanent modifications (540,000) than modifications that have failed and been canceled (over 800,000). This is the well-chronicled result of the rush to get the program started, major program design flaws like the failure to remedy mortgage servicers' favoring of foreclosure over permanent modifications, and a refusal to hold those abysmally performing mortgage servicers accountable for their disregard of program guidelines. As the program flounders, foreclosures continue to mount, with 8 million to 13 million filings forecast over the program's lifetime.
Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner has acknowledged that the program ''won't come close'' to fulfilling its original expectations, that its incentives are not ''powerful enough'' and that the mortgage servicers are ''still doing a terribly inadequate job.'' But Treasury officials refuse to address these shortfalls. Instead they continue to stubbornly maintain that the program is a success and needs no material change, effectively assuring that Treasury's most specific Main Street promise will not be honored.
Finally, the country was assured that regulatory reform would address the threat to our financial system posed by large banks that have become effectively guaranteed by the government no matter how reckless their behavior. This promise also appears likely to go unfulfilled. The biggest banks are 20 percent larger than they were before the crisis and control a larger part of our economy than ever. They reasonably assume that the government will rescue them again, if necessary. Indeed, credit rating agencies incorporate future government bailouts into their assessments of the largest banks, exaggerating market distortions that provide them with an unfair advantage over smaller institutions, which continue to struggle.
Worse, Treasury apparently has chosen to ignore rather than support real efforts at reform, such as those advocated by Sheila Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, to simplify or shrink the most complex financial institutions.
In the final analysis, it has been Treasury's broken promises that have turned TARP -- which was instrumental in saving the financial system at a relatively modest cost to taxpayers -- into a program commonly viewed as little more than a giveaway to Wall Street executives.
It wasn't meant to be that. Indeed, Treasury's mismanagement of TARP and its disregard for TARP's Main Street goals -- whether born of incompetence, timidity in the face of a crisis or a mindset too closely aligned with the banks it was supposed to rein in -- may have so damaged the credibility of the government as a whole that future policy makers may be politically unable to take the necessary steps to save the system the next time a crisis arises. This avoidable political reality might just be TARP's most lasting, and unfortunate, legacy.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GRAHAM BOUMIEU) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANK FAILURES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); HOMEOWNERS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); HOME PRICES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



696 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: As Economy Sputters, A Timid Fed

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com; twitter.com/DLeonhardt

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
Whenever officials at the Federal Reserve confront a big decision, they have to weigh two competing risks. Are they doing too much to speed up economic growth and touching off inflation? Or are they doing too little and allowing unemployment to stay high?
It's clear which way the Fed has erred recently. It has done too little. It stopped trying to bring down long-term interest rates early last year under the wishful assumption that a recovery had taken hold, only to be forced to reverse course by the end of year. 
Given this recent history, you might think Fed officials would now be doing everything possible to ensure a solid recovery. But they're not. Once again, many of them are worried that the Fed is doing too much. And once again, the odds are rising that it's doing too little.
Higher oil prices, government layoffs, Japan's devastation and Europe's debt woes are all working against the recovery. Already, a prominent research firm founded by a former Fed governor, Macroeconomic Advisers, has downgraded its estimate of economic growth in the current quarter to a paltry 2.3 percent, from 4 percent. The Fed's own forecasts, notes that former governor, Laurence Meyer, ''have been incredibly optimistic.''
Why is this happening? Above all, blame our unbalanced approach to monetary policy.
One group of Fed officials and watchers worries constantly about the prospect of rising inflation, no matter what the economy is doing. Some of them are haunted by the inflation of the 1970s and worry it may return at any time. Others spend much of their time with bank executives or big investors, who generally have more to lose from high inflation than from high unemployment.
There is no equivalent group -- at least not one as influential -- that obsesses over unemployment. Instead, the other side of the debate tends to be dominated by moderates, like Ben Bernanke, the Fed chairman, and Mr. Meyer, who sometimes worry about inflation and sometimes about unemployment.
The result is a bias that can distort the Fed's decision-making. Just look at the last 18 months. Again and again, the inflation worriers, who are known as hawks, warned of an overheated economy. In one speech, a regional Fed president even raised the specter of Weimar Germany.
These warnings helped bring an end early last year to the Fed's attempts to reduce long-term interest rates -- even though the Fed's own economic models said that it should be doing much more. We now know, of course, that the models were right and the hawks were wrong. Recoveries from financial crises are usually slow and uneven. Yet the hawks show no sign of grappling with their failed predictions.
It is true that the situation has become more complicated in the last couple of months. Some of the economic data has been encouraging, and inflation has picked up.
In particular, core inflation, which excludes volatile oil and food prices, has increased somewhat. (Overall inflation obviously matters more for household budgets, but core inflation matters more to the Fed, because it's a better predictor of future inflation than inflation itself.) Over the last three months, the Fed's preferred measure of core inflation has risen at annual rate of 1.4 percent, up from less than 1 percent last year.
Still, 1.4 percent remains low -- considerably lower than the past decade's average of 1.9 percent, the 1990s average of 2.2 percent or the 1980s average of 4.6 percent. Unemployment, on the other hand, remains high. By any standard, joblessness is a bigger problem than inflation.
There is also reason to think that inflation will fall in coming months. Rising oil prices alone aren't enough to create an inflationary spiral. Workers also need to have enough leverage to demand substantial raises -- which then forces companies to increase prices and, in turn, gives workers further reason to demand raises. In today's economy, this chain of events is pretty hard to fathom.
Adam Posen, an American economist who's now an official at the Bank of England, told The Guardian this week that he was so confident inflation in Britain would decline that he would resign if it did not. His analysis also applies to the United States. ''Wages,'' Mr. Posen said, ''will be the dog that doesn't bark.''
It's still too soon to know what the Fed should do next. Its current plan is to let the program known as QE2 -- for quantitative easing, round two -- expire in June. The program started late last year, once the economy's troubles were impossible to ignore, as an attempt to reduce long-term interest rates by buying Treasury bonds.
If the economic data improves and inflation does not drop, ending QE2 will be the right call. But if the economy continues to weaken, there will be a strong case for doing more. One option would be to buy both Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed bonds, as the Fed did during QE1, as a way to attack the double dip in the housing market.
The problem is that some Fed officials already seem to have made up their minds, regardless of the data. In their public remarks, officials continue to wring their hands about QE2 rather than prepare people for the possibility of QE3. Some hawks have gone so far as to suggest halting QE2 early.
Meanwhile, the recovery looks uncertain, and the job market remains weak. Even if job growth were to accelerate sharply in coming months, the economy would be years away from so-called full employment. But never mind that, the hawks say -- rampant inflation is just around the corner.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Low Inflation and High Unemployment: The Federal Reserve's preferred measure of underlying inflation -- which excludes volatile food and energy prices -- has increased in the last two months, but it remains lower than at almost any other point since 1980. The percentage of adults who are working also remains low, suggesting that unemployment is a bigger problem today than inflation. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis (inflation) and Bureau of Labor Statistics (employment), via Haver Analytics) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); EXECUTIVES (63%); GOVERNORS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



697 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEAL PROFESSOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: At Forum for Deal Makers, Expect Focus on Law and Rules

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff, a former corporate lawyer at Shearman & Sterling, is a professor at the University of Connecticut School of Law. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow @StevenDavidoff on Twitter.

 BODY:
The 23rd annual Tulane Corporate Law Institute, an annual gathering of deal makers in New Orleans, begins on Thursday. It's not the glittering affair of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, but rather a wonky convention of investment bankers, lawyers and others in the takeover business.
A number of roiling issues are at the top of the deal-making agenda. These are some of the likely topics.
STATE OF THE MARKET: The market for mergers and acquisitions has been surging, with domestic activity increasing to $912 billion in 2010, from a low of $799 billion in 2009, according to Dealogic. With the announcement of AT&T's $39 billion bid for T-Mobile USA, this year is off to a good start. 
But all is not well. Strategic bidders remain focused on their businesses, hesitant to engage in risky takeover transactions. The credit market is bubbly, but private equity is still having trouble committing capital.
This is despite having about $540 billion in dry powder to spend, according to Preqin, an independent research firm. The combination of hesitant strategic bidders and private equity's commitment problems are constraining the growth of the M.&A. market.
International opportunities are looking less promising, with China in an inflationary period, Japan experiencing a terrible natural disaster, Europe struggling with sovereign debt and the Middle East in turmoil. Because of this, the prospects for deals in the United States look better than in many other countries for the first time in years despite the American economy's problems.
NATIONAL SECURITY REGULATION: Countries are racing to tighten the criteria governing foreign takeovers of domestic companies. In the last year, Canada refused to approve BHP Billiton's acquisition of the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan, while the United States forced Huawei, a Chinese telecommunications company, to unwind a small $2 million technology purchase. China has retaliated by adopting its own national security process for foreign investment to go along with its ordinary approval requirements for foreign buyers.
Expect the discussions at Tulane to focus on the kinds of backroom negotiations that are taking place over the national security approval process, particularly when the buyer is Chinese. This is a concern because the United States appears increasingly intolerant of that country's investments.
INVESTMENT BANKERS: Investment bankers are feeling under siege by the Delaware courts. The most prominent example was in the recent Del Monte case. Barclays, which was representing Del Monte but was also providing financing to the buyers in what is called staple financing, was accused of having secret contacts with prospective bidders in breach of agreements Del Monte had negotiated. A Delaware court criticized this conduct, though some have called Barclays a hero for obtaining a high-premium offer. The Del Monte opinion comes on the heels of recent Delaware cases finding that investment bankers had inadequately disclosed information about their financial advice.
It all means that bankers are worried that they will make another misstep and come under heavy public criticism. At least one law firm has called into question the continued use of staple financing after Del Monte.
Investment bankers are bound to now rely more heavily on lawyers during the acquisition process. But the Del Monte case may be an outlier where a bank simply did a bad thing. The discussion at Tulane will be about the procedures Del Monte necessitates, but the real debate should be whether all of the additional requirements for investment bank financial advice are really worthwhile or just more process and disclosure without a purpose.
'LOCK-UP CREEP': Increasingly in friendly deals, there is what I call lock-up creep. Lock-ups are devices intended to protect a deal from third-party bidders. The best-known type of lock-ups are termination fees payable if the deal is trumped by a third-party bidder. But the trend in recent deals is for enhanced lock-ups, hence, lock-up creep. For example, initial bidders are receiving expansive information rights that entitle them to know about every conversation with a third-party bidder. The issue is whether boards are using this silence to go too far in giving their chosen bidder a sure deal with lock-ups.
MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS: The J. Crew buyout arranged by the private equity firms TPG Capital and Leonard Green showed the problems of management participation unduly affecting the sale process. The talk of Tulane will be about how to prevent management from using its upper hand to buy out the company unfairly. And the focus will again be on more process.
But the real solution may simply be for boards to be more vigilant. For example, RAE Systems recently agreed to a buyout by Battery Ventures. When another bidder emerged and the chief executive and significant stockholder refused to endorse a new, higher offer from Battery Ventures, the board took a novel position. It proposed to issue new shares to dilute the manager's stake and sell the company to Battery Ventures anyway. This is an aggressive response, but it shows that boards can effectively manage the sale process. Following good procedures is merely a sign of this vigilance, a trait shareholders should encourage.
TAKEOVER DEFENSES: The proper balance of takeover defenses will be a topic at Tulane. The Delaware Chancery Court recently allowed Airgas the use of a poison pill to defeat a hostile bid by Air Products. The Airgas decision shows how a poison pill can work effectively with a staggered board, a board in which directors are elected in one-third tranches. Bidders must thus wait two years to elect a majority of the board and force the poison pill to be redeemed. In Airgas's wake, a pill and staggered board have become a more powerful antitakeover device.
But the decision is spurring shareholder activists to seek work-arounds. Lucian A. Bebchuk, a Harvard Law professor and a leading advocate for shareholders, has written that shareholders need to increase their lobbying efforts to force corporations to drop staggered boards because of Airgas.
Companies are fighting back. Oklahoma recently adopted a statute requiring all of its companies to have staggered boards on the heels of a similar law in Indiana. The question now is how hard companies will fight to adopt or keep these types of boards and whether they will begin to lobby more widely for laws that support them.
SHAREHOLDER ACTIVISM: Shareholder activism is a perennial discussion at Tulane. Hedge fund activism is likely to surpass precrisis levels in coming years. Companies are increasingly fighting back, and the battle is shifting to the Securities and Exchange Commission over an amendment to the share ownership reporting requirements. The discussion will not focus on meta issues like efforts to work with hedge funds to build better governance, a trend we are seeing in a few particularly troubled companies like St. Joe and Dynegy. Rather and unfortunately, it will focus on the more mundane issues of the tactics to beat activists.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); PRIVATE EQUITY (77%); MERGERS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); EXTERNAL DEBT (65%); NATURAL DISASTERS (51%)

COMPANY: POTASH CORP OF SASKATCHEWAN INC (65%); BHP BILLITON PLC (65%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%)

TICKER: POT (TSX) (65%); POT (NYSE) (65%); BLT (LSE) (65%); BIBLT (JSE) (65%); BBL (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212392 PHOSPHATE ROCK MINING (65%); NAICS212391 POTASH, SODA & BORATE MINERAL MINING (65%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (65%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (65%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (65%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (65%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (65%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (56%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) DELAWARE, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (91%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); SWITZERLAND (91%); EUROPE (79%); CANADA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



698 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Housing Prices Slide for a Sixth Month

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
The housing market remains mired in trouble, with plummeting prices and slumping sales. First-time buyers are fleeing, sellers are frustrated, builders are depressed and lenders are skittish about making new loans.
''The numbers are gloomy, no question,'' said the economist Karl E. Case. ''We're bouncing along a rocky bottom.''
And that, he said, is the optimistic view. 
''Others think we're falling off another cliff,'' Mr. Case said.
Housing prices slid in January for the sixth consecutive month, putting them barely above the lows reached in the depths of the recession two years ago, according to the index that Mr. Case helped develop.
The Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller Home Price Index for 20 large cities declined 1 percent from December, putting the slide from its 2006 peak at 31.8 percent, according to data released Tuesday.
Eleven cities hit a new low for the downturn, including Charlotte, N.C., Miami, Tampa, Fla., and New York. Prices in New York have fallen 23 percent from their peak.
Analysts expected a rough winter, but not quite so brutal. ''We are more negative on housing than we were three months ago,'' said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets. Any recovery will be delayed from this fall until next year, she said.
Buying a house is a mix of faith and necessity, but that first element is scarce these days. The Conference Board reported Tuesday that its consumer confidence index tumbled 8.6 percent in March, the first drop in six months and the largest in a year. Only 15 percent of respondents thought their incomes would increase over the next six months.
Among the troubles facing the market is a pervasive sense that houses are a bad bet. If prices still have further to fall, if loans are tough to get, if interest rates are no longer plunging, why not put off a deal if you possibly can?
Yet as Mr. Case suggested, things could be worse. The market is not falling at nearly the rate it was in 2008. All but the gloomiest analysts think the market is much closer to the end of the process than the beginning.
An element that is paradoxically working to shore up the market is the millions of foreclosed houses that are not coming back for sale and contributing to the abundance of inventory. Too much inventory pushes down prices.
Lenders, who are wrangling with policy makers over reforms, placed 21 percent fewer homeowners in foreclosure in January than they did in November, even as the number of loans in severe default was holding steady, according to data released Tuesday by LPS Applied Analytics.
One reason for fewer foreclosures is that more struggling borrowers appear to be making deals with their banks. The percent of severely delinquent loans returning to paid-up status rose to 22 percent from 10 percent over the last year, LPS said.
For many of the rest, foreclosure is less a process than a destination, the data indicates. Three out of 10 homeowners in foreclosure have not made any payment in at least two years.
Case-Shiller is a three-month moving average, which means it is resistant to quick changes. On a seasonally adjusted basis, January's drop was 0.2 percent, the same as in December. In the slower winter months, the adjusted numbers are considered less indicative of the market's true condition.
Prices were down 3.1 percent from their levels a year earlier. Only two of the 20 cities in the index recorded price increases during that time: Washington and, barely, San Diego.
First-time buyers, a critical force in the market, have become scarcer since a stimulus program involving tax credits came to an end last spring.
''That really motivated a lot of people to act,'' said Steven Thoele, a broker with Keller Williams Realty in Portland, Ore. ''Eight grand in your pocket went a long way to making the numbers work.''
Portland reached another low for the current downturn in January. Prices there fell 1.8 percent from December. They are now down 27 percent from their 2007 peak.
''You do kind of wonder where the bottom is,'' said Mr. Thoele. ''Sellers know in the back of their mind that their home is worth less than at the peak, but they're still a little surprised when you tell them their $400,000 house is now worth $300,000.''
Atlanta, Cleveland, Detroit and Las Vegas are now below their average prices of 11 years ago, and Phoenix is nearly there. Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas and Minneapolis are not doing much better. After adjusting for inflation, the struggles in these cities are even more pronounced.
The Case-Shiller release capped a run of weak housing reports. Existing-home sales were down in February by nearly 10 percent from January, the National Association of Realtors reported last week, much worse than expected.
New-home sales in February were 14 percent below forecasts, according to the Census Bureau. At an annual rate of 250,000, sales were the lowest since the advent of comprehensive record-keeping in 1963.
In one hopeful note, the National Association of Realtors said this week that pending home sales rose 2.1 percent in February. Those deals, which will become final in March and April, indicate that sales are unlikely to continue to tumble, which could help stabilize prices.
''The spring market could have some good surprises,'' said Mr. Case, the economist.
''I say that with absolutely no conviction.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A couple examining a 1910 Craftsman-style bungalow in Portland, Ore., last Sunday. Home prices fell 1.8 percent in January from December, and are down 27 percent from their peak, but are up 36 percent since January 2000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) CHARTS: After a modest recovery last year, home prices fell for a sixth consecutive month in January, according to an index of 20 cities compiled by S.& P./Case-Shiller. (B1)
 Home Prices Slide Again: The S.&P./Case-Shiller index, a measure of residential real estate in 20 metropolitan regions, slid in every city but Washington in January. Over all, it is at the same level as June 2003. (CHART BY KEVIN QUEALY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING MARKET (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); INTEREST RATES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (75%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (74%); MIAMI, FL, USA (70%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



699 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: Chinatown Mobilizes to Enhance Its Outside Appeal

BYLINE: By CLAIRE WILSON

 BODY:
The 9/11 attacks took a particularly large toll on small businesses in Chinatown. Dependent on tourists and clients who work downtown, shopkeepers saw sales fall precipitously -- and have struggled to return activity to the levels of a decade ago.
One of them, Siowai Sang, the owner of Golden Jade Jewelry, said his sales were down 70 percent from pre-9/11 levels. His financial district clientele all but disappeared after the attacks, and the slow economy has not been good for nonessential purchases like jewelry, Mr. Sang said. ''When markets go down, the jewelry business is the first to hurt and the last to recover,'' he said.
Now an organized effort is being made improve Chinatown's prospects. Retailers like Mr. Sang, who owns one of the 262 jewelry shops in and around Canal Street, as well as those who operate clothing stores, souvenir shops and restaurants, will be the focus of a new business improvement district financed by building owners. The organization will supply resources for public safety officers, new signage and marketing in an effort to make the teeming neighborhood more appealing to visitors. The district is expected to receive final approvals from the city this summer. 
Mr. Sang serves on the board of the fledgling business district, which he said was long overdue. ''We need somebody to manage garbage pickup, get rid of the smell and do promotion and advertising,'' he said.
Chinatown has had relatively little new construction, even as it has expanded its boundaries north and east into Little Italy and the Lower East Side. Some hotels have been built near the fringes, but there is little modern office space and little on the drawing boards. Demand exists, particularly for doctors' and dentists' offices. Yet the real estate boom that buoyed much of the city earlier in the decade was felt less in Chinatown.
Ownership is the crux of the problem. Wellington Chen, the executive director of the coming business district, now called the Chinatown Partnership, said buildings of all descriptions, including side-street tenements, are owned by ''associations'' of Chinese business people as well as families, many of whom have owned all or part of a building for generations. Getting all parties to agree to a sale would be nearly impossible, he said, even if all the owners could be located. Assembling multiple contiguous parcels for new construction, like three or more tenement buildings, would be extremely difficult.
''Chinatown is the Wild, Wild West when it comes to finding out who the building owners are,'' said Yvonne Chang, a broker with the Kaufman Organization who is marketing leases at a two-story building at 257 Canal Street.
Landmark status on some buildings is another obstacle to development, as is the significant number of rent-controlled and rent-stabilized housing units in the area. Mr. Chen said about 4,200 of the 5,000 apartments in the neighborhood are regulated. Ousting tenants in any of the regulated buildings is out of the question, even though some building owners would like to see them go so they could raise the rent.
Chinese owners also prefer to do business within the Chinese community, another factor that gets in the way of development. ''They won't go far past who they know, and they know everybody,'' Ms. Chang said. ''They market among themselves.''
The renovated 139 Centre Street, a nine-story commercial condo developed by Youngwoo & Associates, whose principal, Young S. Woo, is Korean, is one example. On the market for two years, 120 of 144 units have been sold, all but one to professionals of Asian or Chinese origin. The exception is an American obstetrician, said Charlotte Cheung, the marketing sales director for the building. Many of the buyers, who are now paying about $850 a unit per square foot, down from a peak of $1,150 two years ago, have medical offices that cater to an Asian patient population that is willing to travel long distances to Chinatown to receive health care from professionals of their ethnic group.
Making it a condominium automatically geared it to Asians. ''We like to own instead of rent,'' Ms. Cheung said. ''Many will stay 20 years or more and put a lot of money into capital improvements.''
The Asian-to-Asian business equation can be a double-edged sword. Such insularity is reassuring to many business people, especially the large community of recent arrivals. Language is a consideration, as are social customs.
But it can also be a hindrance. Chinese landlords renting small spaces like those on Canal Street often charge their compatriots much higher rents than what a non-Asian landlord or broker charges, brokers say. ''If we're charging $10,000 a month for a storefront, the Chinese landlord next door is getting $25,000 to $30,000,'' said Ms. Chang of the Kaufman Organization.
One broker attributed the difference in prices to an underground economy in Chinatown, in which some vendors sell counterfeit goods like handbags, often at margins as high as 1,200 percent. There is high demand for these spaces because they are so lucrative, and prospective tenants are always waiting. Commercial brokers like the Kaufman Organization will not lease to these kinds of businesses, Ms. Chang said, so they need to charge lower rents.
Mr. Chen agrees that prices are high for retail and office space. He said that some nonprofit groups -- like his Chinatown Partnership, which was in TriBeCa before moving to St. James Place in Chinatown, the Asian American Federation on Wall Street, and Asian Women in Business on Lower Broadway -- are routinely priced out of the very community they are meant to serve. Adding to his frustration is that many sites are not fully built out, which would relieve some of the shortage if they were developed.
Still, there are signs that non-Asian businesses are making inroads. Major retail brokers say businesses from outside the neighborhood are starting to take notice of the area's population density, foot traffic and the fact that Canal Street is a major transit hub. ''It's shifting, although retailers have to stick with the major streets and not go too far into the side streets,'' said Ariel Schuster, an executive vice president of the retail broker Robert K. Futterman.
Mr. Chen said retail and restaurant customers would benefit from an initiative that would help reduce the trash on Chinatown's streets and the vermin that feast on it. Margaret Chin, a City Council member who represents the area, has proposed legislation to force store owners to clean their sidewalks daily to eliminate odors that pervade the neighborhood, especially during the warm-weather tourist season. Beyond cleaner streets, the business district is planning interactive maps, smartphone apps and free Wi-Fi to appeal to visitors. Walking routes will be worked out among neighborhoods that link Chinatown to other Lower Manhattan attractions.
One group Mr. Chen aims to attract are visitors to ground zero -- some five million a year, about 25 percent of whom also visit Chinatown. Over all, Lower Manhattan below Chambers Street had 9 million tourists in 2010, up from a post-9/11 low of 3 million in 2003 and more than the 8.7 million it attracted in 2000, according to the Alliance for Downtown New York.
Foreign tourists will likewise be considered potential visitors, particularly deep-pocketed Chinese, who spend $7,000 a person on each visit to the United States, Mr. Chen said. ''Mott Street is our Mount Vernon,'' he said.
''Our strongest card, our salvation, is tourism,'' he said. ''We are sitting on a gold mine.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Wellington Chen says ownership of Chinatown buildings can be complex. Below, 139 Centre Street, a condo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (83%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); TERRORISM (78%); JEWELRY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); JEWELRY STORES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FINE JEWELRY (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); RENT CONTROL (72%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); APPROVALS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



700 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Immigrants Face Darkest Housing Picture

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
Among New Yorkers, it is a sentiment universally shared: the housing situation is tough. But a new study suggests that no one has it as tough as the city's Mexican immigrants.
Mexican immigrant households are more likely to experience overcrowding and spend more than half their income on rent than those of any other immigrant group or the native-born population, says the study, to be released Wednesday by the Community Service Society, an anti-poverty advocacy and research group in New York.
About 43 percent of all Mexican immigrant households are overcrowded, compared with an average of 15 percent of all immigrant households and 9 percent of households in the general population, according to the report, titled ''Housing the City of Immigrants.'' The study also finds that about 35 percent of Mexican households spend more than half their income on rent, compared with 26 percent of all immigrant households and 24 percent of all households combined. 
''Immigrants as a whole experience worse housing conditions than other New Yorkers,'' wrote the authors, Tom Waters and Victor Bach, who based their study on the New York City Housing and Vacancy Survey conducted in 2008. ''They pay a larger share of their income in rent and they are twice as likely to live in crowded conditions.''
But the researchers, both housing policy analysts at the Community Service Society, also warned that such generalizations could be misleading because when examined close up, housing conditions differ widely among immigrant groups, reflecting the diversity and complexity of the immigrant experience in the city.
The report suggests that the relatively poor housing experience of many Mexicans is a function in part of the population's newness to New York and their low income levels.
Those immigrant groups that have been in the city for a longer period of time tend to have better access to subsidized and public housing, the report said. In addition, Mexicans, particularly men who have immigrated alone to the United States for work, will crowd apartments to save money, especially if they live in neighborhoods where affordable housing is scarce, scholars say.
Among its other intriguing observations, the report noted that while home ownership rose from one generation to the next -- to 44 percent of all second-generation immigrant households from 31 percent of first-generation households -- the increase was even sharper among low-income immigrants, rising to 34 percent among second-generation households from 17 percent among first-generation households.
While the authors did not suggest a reason for this difference, David Dyssegaard Kallick, director of the Immigration Research Initiative at the Fiscal Policy Institute, said it could partly reflect the fact that some low-income immigrants were ''pushed prematurely into home ownership by predatory lending.''
The study also found that 61 percent of all households led by Dominican immigrants occupied rent-controlled or rent-stabilized housing, the highest of any group. The authors posited one possible cause: Dominicans first settled in areas where Puerto Ricans were already established and where there was a large stock of rent-regulated housing, like Washington Heights.
While there is often a direct parallel between income levels and housing conditions, the study showed that such a correlation sometimes breaks down. Asian immigrants from countries outside South Asia, China, Taiwan and South Korea have the highest median household income of any group, yet 17 percent of their households are overcrowded, nearly double the rate among the general population. At the same time, that group has one of the lowest percentages, 22 percent, of households with extraordinary rent burdens.
The report also found that households led by European immigrants were more likely to be owner-occupied (47 percent) than those of any other group, and the least likely to be overcrowded (4 percent). About 24 percent of all European households are spending more than 50 percent of their income on rent, one of the lowest rates among immigrant groups. But in low-income European households, that rate shoots up to 62 percent, the highest -- along with Mexicans -- of any low-income immigrant group.
The authors speculated that low-income Europeans ''may be paying a premium in order to live close to the higher-income members of their group.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); WRITERS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PREDATORY LENDING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



701 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Finally, California Finds a Surplus: 50 Feet of Snow

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Sure, fine, California may have its problems right now. There is the budget, yes, what with that pesky $26.5 billion deficit, and the legislative stalemate with its, you know, stalemate-ness. Unemployment is still high, and so is anxiety, about everything from housing prices to radioactive clouds drifting over from Japan. 
But California has at least one thing going for it at the moment: Mother Nature. This winter, the state, which had been stuck in a prolonged drought, was positively walloped by Pacific storms, bringing more than 50 feet of snow to some ski spots in the Sierra Nevada and even a flurry or two to San Francisco.
And so it is that on Wednesday, Gov. Jerry Brown is expected to lift a 2009 emergency drought proclamation issued by his predecessor, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, symbolically ending the state's worst dry spell since the late 1980s and early '90s.
The announcement comes less than a week after the California Department of Water Resources found that the snowpack level was at about 159 percent of normal, its highest since 1995. That figure stands in stark contrast to the arid days of 2007, when the state had about 39 percent of its average snowpack. Thus began a three-year drought that cost farmers hundreds of millions of dollars as irrigation water became scarce and exacerbated the already soaring unemployment rate in many agricultural areas.
The farm-heavy Central Valley bore the brunt of this pain, leading to Mr. Schwarzenegger's proclamation, which allowed state agencies to enact a variety of emergency plans and urged cities to help conserve water. Although this was the second straight year of wetter weather, state officials were hesitant to lift the proclamation until now.
Still, as with everything in the Brown administration -- so far marked by a tough-love approach -- even happy news comes with a caveat.
''While this season's surplus of rain and strong snowpack has clearly ended the dry spell for now,'' Mr. Brown said in a statement, ''it is critical that Californians continue to conserve water.''
Bummer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A field near Bakersfield, Calif., in 2008, part of a three-year drought. Wetter weather has arrived. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID McNEW/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (77%); SKIING (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); REAL ESTATE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); IRRIGATION (67%); HOME PRICES (57%); WATER QUALITY (52%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (78%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



702 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Interpublic, 5 Years and 180 Degrees Later

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
FOR the Interpublic Group of Companies, what a difference five years and two days make.
On March 27, 2006, executives of Interpublic, the giant agency holding company, had, for the first time, a daylong meeting with Wall Street. The intent was to reassure nervous investors that Interpublic was finally turning around after almost four years of struggling with serious financial and operational problems.
On Tuesday, Interpublic, which owns agencies like Huge, Mullen and Weber Shandwick, held its second such meeting, which was, like the first, called Investor Day. More than 200 stock analysts, shareholders, hedge fund managers, executives from rating services and reporters attended the follow-up, at the Times Center in Midtown Manhattan. 
This time, the purpose was to report on Interpublic's considerable progress since the first meeting and declare confidently that additional ambitious goals could be met.
One such goal is continuing to improve profit margins at Interpublic, the world's fourth-largest agency company in revenue, so they match those of peers and competitors like WPP, which is first; the Omnicom Group, No. 2; and the Publicis Groupe, third.
''It's a little bit easier of a meeting today than it was five years ago,'' Frank Mergenthaler, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Interpublic, said with a smile.
''We're a much different company than we were five years ago,'' he added, when financial oversight was so lax that ''Interpublic was out of control.''
Interpublic ''will attain peer-level margins'' of 13 percent, Mr. Mergenthaler said, compared with 8.4 percent last year.
''It's not if, it's when,'' he added, then proceeded to proffer a date: by 2014.
When Mr. Mergenthaler spoke at the first Investor Day, he was the fourth chief financial officer at Interpublic in four years. His presence at the second one, in the same post, said more than any PowerPoint presentation could.
Still, there were many slide shows and speeches and slick video clips during the meeting, which ran almost six hours. (The first one ran eight, including a brief power failure.) The audience heard from senior managers of the major Interpublic units -- DraftFCB, Lowe & Partners Worldwide, the McCann Worldgroup and Mediabrands -- and top officers of Interpublic.
''A lot of people came up to me and said, 'You must be feeling pretty good about where this company has gone,' '' said Michael I. Roth, chairman and chief executive of Interpublic. He also held those posts at the first Investor Day, where he led the efforts to sell the turnaround story.
''I was asked, 'Is today's presentation sort of a victory lap?' '' Mr. Roth continued. ''What I'd say is that it's a recognition we're a real company and that, collectively, we've delivered a lot.''
''The opportunity is there,'' he added, to deliver more, pointing to the recent decisions by Interpublic to resume paying a dividend and buying back shares.
In an interview, he was asked about the timing of Investor Day 2.0. ''Now that the economy is turning around,'' he said, ''this is the right time to show how we're positioned for the future.''
In an odd way, Interpublic may have benefited from the timing of its problems, which began to emerge in mid-2002. They included accounting irregularities, restatements of financial results and an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission that ended with the payment of a civil penalty of $12 million.
The ensuing measures to turn Interpublic around led to its operating conservatively in the boom years before the global financial crisis; for instance, it cut back on expensive acquisitions. That may have helped Interpublic in its efforts to get back on track.
Although ''it was obviously a difficult period for IPG,'' Mr. Roth said, using the stock-ticker symbol for Interpublic, ''the difficulties positioned us well.''
An analyst who attended both meetings described as ''impressive'' what Interpublic achieved from 2006 to 2011.
''Clearly, they've come a long way,'' said Alexia Quadrani, who was at Bear Stearns then and is at J. P. Morgan Securities now.
''The targets seem achievable,'' she added, referring to remarks by Mr. Mergenthaler, ''so long as we have a healthy economy.''
In trading on Tuesday on the New York Stock Exchange, Interpublic shares closed at $12.10, down a penny. On Investor Day 2006, they closed at $10.05; in the ensuing years, the price ranged from $2.61 to $13.81.
The Interpublic executives sought to keep the meeting looking forward more than back.
For instance, Matt Seiler, chief executive of Mediabrands, which oversees media agencies like Initiative and Universal McCann, announced a reorganization that replaces the traditional model of geographic regions with clusters based on the economic status and potential of countries. One cluster will include Brazil, Britain, China, France, Germany, India and Russia, while another will include Africa, the Baltics, the Middle East and Turkey.
And Darren Moran, the new executive vice president and chief creative officer at the New York office of DraftFCB, offered a preview of a commercial for the Oreo cookie line sold by Kraft Foods. The spot, for Oreo Fudge Cremes, shows a family expressing surprise at the taste by exclaiming eyebrow-raising catchphrases like ''Shut the front door!'' and ''Franklin Delano!''
Although Mr. Roth and Mr. Mergenthaler returned from the first Investor Day, several others who made presentations in 2006 did not because they had left Interpublic. Among them were the former leaders of Lowe and the Mediabrands predecessor, the Interpublic Media Group.
Also different were the operations that concerned the audience members. In 2006, they asked about the subpar performances of Lowe and the media agencies. Five years later, those holdings having been deemed recovered, the questions were about results at the McCann Worldgroup, the largest Interpublic unit, which has lost some large accounts and undergone executive reshufflings.
''The Worldgroup wasn't broken,'' Mr. Roth said. ''It just had to be transformed.'' Among the shifts were the hiring of managers like Nick Brien, chief executive, and Mark Landsberg, chief executive of MRM Worldwide.
Ms. Quadrani said she believed ''the Worldgroup problems are not as dire as those at the media group and Lowe five years ago.''
''It's not like it's broken,'' she added. ''It just needs to improve.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael I. Roth, chief of Interpublic Group, the advertising giant, spoke Tuesday at Investor Day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%); POWER FAILURES (50%)

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (98%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (91%); DRAFTFCB INC (63%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (62%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (58%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (98%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: MICHAEL I ROTH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



703 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Doctrine For Libya: Not Carved In Stone

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER and HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- So, is there an Obama doctrine?
In laying out his justification for the American-led assault on Libya on Monday night, the president offered the most detailed portrait of when he might commit the country's military might in a tumultuous world.
He would take action, he said, if vital national security interests were at stake. He would consider it if economic interests were threatened, or if there was a humanitarian crisis so deep it could not be ignored. But in those two instances, he would hesitate unless there was international participation, and the cost was not too high. 
But these conditions seemed tailor made for Libya, and the president seemed to provide little guidance for what position he would take in other, more vital nations in the region now roiled by an ''Arab Spring'' of popular uprising. Nor did Mr. Obama's speech on Monday shed light on whether the president would use force in other trouble spots.
''If there were ever a speech more dedicated to eliminating the idea of a doctrine, this was it,'' said David J. Rothkopf, the author of ''Running the World: The Inside Story of the National Security Council and the Architects of American Power.'' ''He basically said, 'We have American values and they're going to define us, and we're going to stick to them -- provided it's not too hard to do so.' ''
Some of Mr. Obama's advisers have said he has studiously avoided turning Libya into a case study for his view of foreign policy, given that it is not vital to American interests in the region and that his administration is trying to play down the United States' role in what they hope will be a NATO-led mission. To their minds, the limited use of air power in Libya does not call for an inspiring or sweeping statement of the role of governmental power. The Libya standard may not apply to the rest of the world.
In fact, Mr. Obama's description of his criteria for military intervention offers little hint of what he might do in Ivory Coast, for example, where the United Nations says at least 700,000 people have fled their homes in Abidjan to escape daily gunfire spurred by Laurent Gbagbo's efforts to stay in power after losing a presidential election in November, and where 10,000 civilians were holed up in a Catholic mission in one town, seeking refuge from Mr. Gbagbo's forces.
Nor does it easily apply to Darfur, where the Sudanese government is defying a United Nations Security Council resolution by bombing rebels, and where the United Nations estimates that at least 300,000 people have died in a humanitarian crisis sparked by a counterinsurgency campaign that began in 2003.
As for the rest of the Middle East, White House officials say the president will respond to the unfolding events on a country-by-country basis, and will resist a one-size-fits-all American policy.
One administration official argued that Libya was different from Ivory Coast because, he said, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader, had threatened to hunt down civilians in Benghazi in their homes. Mr. Obama alluded to that in his speech, when he compared Benghazi to Charlotte, N. C., a city of a similar size, with a population of 700,000. In the cases where America did act, Mr. Obama had a number of caveats. He said that ''the burden of action should not be America's alone'' -- that there needed to be a multilateral partnership -- and that regime change should not be the task of the United States military. ''To be blunt, we went down that road in Iraq,'' the president said, in a swipe at his predecessor, President George W. Bush.
Not that he spared President Bill Clinton, either. Mr. Obama never used the word ''Rwanda,'' where genocide took the lives of one million people during the Clinton administration. But he invoked it indirectly. ''As president, I refused to wait for the images of slaughter and mass graves before taking action,'' he said.
In a 28-minute speech, Mr. Obama, a reluctant commander in chief who campaigned against the war in Iraq and set his primary agenda as creating jobs and passing the health care overhaul, staked out a vexing middle ground.
If anything, some analysts said, it revealed a deeply pragmatic president, one less ideological than some predecessors, and more likely to balance many issues, including budgets and an analysis of American interests.
''There is no Obama doctrine because the president is not doctrinaire,'' said Robert S. Litwak, vice president for programs at the Woodrow Wilson Center. ''In Libya, he is grappling with persisting tensions in U.S. foreign policy that can be managed but not resolved -- between mulitilateralism and unilateralism and in confronting a humanitarian challenge rooted in the character of the Qaddafi regime, which is seeking international cover behind the principle of state sovereignty.''
Although the president's address was not viewed as enunciating a true, new doctrine, it no doubt benefited military commanders and military planners to hear Mr. Obama's detailed discussion of when, how and for what interests he would invest the lives of their troops.
''It was a reasonable speech expressing clear direction and guidance to the Department of Defense and to the various commands involved, but it was not an over-arching recalibration of national military strategy,'' said Adm. Timothy J. Keating, who retired after serving as the senior officer overseeing two of the military's combatant headquarters, Pacific Command and Northern Command.
Gary Hart, the former Democratic senator from Colorado, described Libya as ''the face of 21st century conflict,'' and argued that the violence there proved it was time for Mr. Obama to enunciate a set of strategic principles.
''In the wake of Libya, now would be a very good time for President Obama to announce an 'Obama doctrine,' similar to the Truman Doctrine of 1947, that lays out the terms and conditions under which the U.S. will use its military power,'' Mr. Hart said in an e-mail. ''We cannot simply respond in ad hoc fashion to these local and regional crises. A set of principles for intervention would give the American people and our allies a sense of purpose and context for our actions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Seven explosions were reported Tuesday at the Qaddafi residence and military targets in the suburb of Tajura, and two explosions also rocked the capital, Tripoli. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAHMUD TURKIA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); WRITERS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); COTE D'IVOIRE (93%); SUDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



704 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Obama Returns to Harlem to Attend a Lucrative Fund-Raiser

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- Add this to all the evidence that Harlem has been gentrified since Barack Obama's days as a Columbia University student: He returned there on Tuesday evening as the nation's first African-American president, and for a $30,800-a-person fund-raiser. 
The fund-raiser at the new and wildly popular Red Rooster restaurant was expected to raise about $1.5 million for the Democratic National Committee, a party official said. Afterward, Mr. Obama attended an invitation-only reception at the Studio Museum in Harlem for past Democratic donors.
Manhattan, the nation's financial capital, has long been a fund-raising magnet for presidents of both parties, including Mr. Obama. But since being elected this was Mr. Obama's first visit to Harlem, the community that historically has been a center of African-American culture but by Mr. Obama's college years had become synonymous with the definition of an American slum.
Neither the White House nor the Democratic National Committee identified attendees who were giving the maximum allowed by federal law. The group was expected to include not only wealthy African-Americans but also a fair number of the usual Democratic donors from Wall Street's largely white male ranks -- a group that Mr. Obama has alienated by his administration's efforts to tighten government regulations after industry abuses contributed to the near-collapse of the financial system in 2008.
In the days preceding Mr. Obama's visit, the news that he would come to Harlem created some debate over the appropriateness of doing so for a high-dollar fund-raiser when the community, for all of its gentrification, is still home to pockets of poverty, illegal drugs and other social ills. But party officials said Mr. Obama had also been criticized in the past for raising money in other parts of Manhattan instead of doing so in Harlem.
Before the fund-raiser and the later reception, Mr. Obama accompanied Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to the New York City Science and Engineering Fair at the Milstein Hall of Ocean Life at the Natural History Museum. He later joined former President Bill Clinton to address an audience that included many African-Americans at the dedication of the new 26-story headquarters of the United States mission at the United Nations, which is named for Ronald H. Brown, the first African-American commerce secretary. Mr. Brown, who served in the Clinton administration, was killed in a plane crash nearly 15 years ago while on a trade mission to the Balkans.
Reporters were briefly allowed into the Red Rooster event, attended by about 50 people, mostly white. Representative Charles B. Rangel, the Democrat who has long represented Harlem but who had to give up his chairmanship of the Ways and Means Committee after an ethics investigation, was there.
Telling the donors this is ''a challenging time,'' Mr. Obama said, ''I could not do what I do'' without the knowledge ''that I have a lot of people rooting for me, a lot of people supporting me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, on a visit to New York on Tuesday, talked with students as he dropped by the Science and Engineering Fair at the Museum of Natural History. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); HISTORY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ETHICS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (60%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (50%)

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (62%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BILL CLINTON (78%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



705 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Food Banks? She Gushes. Budget? No Comment.

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER and THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
Sandra Lee, the Food Network personality and best-selling author, was surrounded by butter-cream-frosted cupcakes and mini-pecan pies, poised to kick off what she had billed as ''the world's largest bake sale'' to raise $50,000 for the Food Bank for New York City.
Ms. Lee, an advocate for ending childhood hunger, attracted 30 New York restaurants and food shops to Vanderbilt Hall in Grand Central Terminal on Tuesday morning, and easily rattled off facts and figures -- ''Every dollar that's raised can turn into four dollars of food at the food bank,'' she said. 
But she became much less vocal when asked about the effect Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's new budget would have on food banks throughout the state. Ms. Lee is the longtime companion of Mr. Cuomo, and food banks and advocacy groups have repeatedly urged the governor to increase state financing for hunger programs.
So far, they have been unsuccessful.
Mr. Cuomo's budget provides $29.7 million in state funding for hunger programs, the same amount as last year.
Advocacy groups say that the allocation would effectively be a cut, since demand has increased and wholesale food prices have risen sharply over the past year.
Ms. Lee, however, was not interested in discussing any of that.
''I am not here to talk about the governor's budget,'' Ms. Lee said, smiling, as she cut off a reporter's question. ''Thank you.''
But what about how Mr. Cuomo's budget will affect food banks specifically?
''I am not here to talk about politics, but thank you for asking,'' she replied, as polite as ever.
The food banks, however, have been less reticent. The Hunger Action Network of New York State distributed thousands of postcards for people to send to Mr. Cuomo and legislative leaders asking them to increase funding for hunger programs.
''We had a lot of hope for him as governor, and he seems blind to the fact that we're in a recession,'' said the group's executive director, Mark Dunlea. ''The demand at food pantries has skyrocketed, and he hasn't really responded to that.''
A spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, Josh Vlasto, declined to comment on the complaints about the financing.
The president of the Food Bank for New York City, Lucy Cabrera, stopped short of directly criticizing Mr. Cuomo on Tuesday. But she made it clear that the cuts to human services in the governor's budget, combined with rising food prices and the lack of additional state money, would put more of a burden on the food bank.
''Anytime you see cuts to any of the social service programs, you're going to see increased need for food, because families and individuals have to make some pretty tough decisions on whether to spend on food or utilities and rent and so forth,'' Ms. Cabrera said.
Ms. Lee, who has made combating hunger a personal campaign, kicked off the day with a $25,000 donation of her own to the Food Bank for New York City. And half of the proceeds from her new book, ''Bake Sale Cookbook,'' will go to Feeding America, a domestic hunger-relief charity, and Share Our Strength: No Kid Hungry, a nonprofit group devoted to ending childhood hunger in America.
In recent months, Ms. Lee has traveled to food banks around the state and has often found herself fending off questions about Mr. Cuomo.
So she has, for better or worse, become accustomed to a familiar exercise.
When a reporter at Grand Central pressed one final time about the budget, Ms. Lee again wanted nothing to do with the issue.
''I'm not here to talk about politics,'' she said, turning on the charm her fans have come to love. ''But if you want a great recipe for cream cheese icing, I've got that for you.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sandra Lee, an advocate for ending childhood hunger, held what she called the ''world's largest bake sale'' in Grand Central Terminal on Tuesday.
 The chef Emeril Lagasse greeted a fan at the bake sale, held to benefit the Food Bank for New York City. Thirty restaurants and food shops participated. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (93%); BUDGETS (91%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); GOVERNORS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD BANK FOR NEW YORK CITY (84%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%); EMERIL LAGASSE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



706 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2268 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosure Aid Fell Short, and Is Fading Away

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL and ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
Last summer, as President Obama's premier plan to save millions of Americans from foreclosure foundered, the administration tossed a new life preserver to homeowners.
Officials unveiled a $1 billion program to offer loans to help the jobless pay their mortgages until they could find work again. It was supposed to take effect before the end of the year, but as of today, the program has yet to accept any applications.
''We wait and wait, and they keep saying it's coming,'' said James Tyson, 50, a Philadelphia homeowner who lost his job a year ago.
That could be an epitaph for the administration's broader foreclosure prevention effort, as tens of billions of dollars remain unspent and hundreds of thousands of homeowners have been rejected. Now the existence of the main program, the Home Assistance Modification Program, is in doubt. 
Saying it is a waste of money, the Republican-controlled House voted on Tuesday night to kill the foreclosure relief program. The Senate, which the Democrats control, will pursue a rescue. But Democrats, too, consider the program badly flawed.
The effort has failed to stanch a wave of foreclosures and a decline in home prices, which have fallen for six consecutive months and are now just barely above their recession low, according to a key index updated on Tuesday. All of this threatens the fragile economy, which is also being buffeted by foreign crises.
''The banking industry fought us tooth and nail, and we ended up with a program that is failing homeowners,'' said Representative Zoe Lofgren, a Democrat from California. ''The administration doesn't give us real enforcement or answers; we just get the old yokey-doke.''
Yet the need remains great. There were 225,000 foreclosure filings in February, according to RealtyTrac. About 145,000 homeowners are in trial modifications under the Obama program. An examination of federal documents and lawsuits, and interviews with legislators, state attorneys general, housing counselors, homeowners and regulators, reveal a federal mortgage modification program crippled by weak oversight, conflicts of interest, mind-numbing complexity and poor performance by many participating banks.
For example:
Congress set aside $50 billion for foreclosure prevention, amid administration projections that three million to four million homeowners would benefit from modifications. So far, the Treasury Department, which oversees the program, has spent slightly more than $1 billion, and just 607,000 homeowners have received permanent loan modifications (of those, 11 percent have defaulted).
The companies that service mortgages, typically large banks, continually lose homeowner paperwork and incorrectly tell homeowners that they must be delinquent to qualify.
Treasury officials have not fined any servicers, and the government-controlled company hired by the Treasury to oversee the program has expressed reluctance to crack down on banks.
Interviews with a dozen homeowner applicants in four states reveal a familiar pattern: Banks deny many who, by income and credit scores, appear to qualify. And homeowners end up weighed down by legal fees and facing foreclosure.
''I call constantly, they lose all my paperwork, and the same guy never gets on the phone,'' said Ada Caceres, 53, who owns a modest home in Staten Island.
Ms. Caceres has struggled to make mortgage payments since her hours as a bartender were cut. She applied for relief, and her bank, JPMorgan Chase, twice granted temporary modifications. She made every payment.
Last August, Chase promised a permanent modification. Then it rescinded the offer, documents show.
''I love my house,'' said Ms. Caceres, who is still negotiating. ''It's a good neighborhood. But oh my God, you want to just give up.''
Homeowners can appeal denials, but the odds are not in their favor, says the program's inspector general. A first step is a hot line providing counseling, from an agency created by mortgage servicers.
Treasury officials argue that the mortgage program has kept more than half a million American homeowners out of foreclosure and has pressured banks to offer in-house modifications. These private modifications, however, typically offer terms significantly less favorable to homeowners than what the government program offers.
Michael S. Barr, who was a top Treasury official involved with the program, says the Obama administration sought to help homeowners and encourage banks even as it protected taxpayers.
''We tried to bring some order out of the chaos,'' said Mr. Barr, now a University of Michigan law professor. ''Taxpayer money was only used for successful modifications. I think that was directionally the right thing to do.''
Trouble at the Start
In the winter of 2009, the Obama administration's urgency to address foreclosures was palpable. Hundreds of thousands of families had lost homes, and in towns from Florida to California to Nevada, foreclosure slums took root, marked by boarded-up homes and uncut grass.
Treasury officials invited Neil M. Barofsky, the special inspector general for the bank bailout, to discuss a rescue plan. They told him details of the plan were still weeks away. ''That night, I was driving home and I heard on the radio that the president was going to announce it next Wednesday,'' Mr. Barofsky recalled. ''It was a 'ready, fire, aim' approach.''
Ready or not, President Obama announced the housing assistance program on Feb. 18, 2009. Banks and mortgage brokers could extend mortgages, or cut the amount of the loan or the interest rate. A monthly payment could not exceed 31 percent of gross income.
In return, the administration offered payments to banks and servicers.
''It will give millions of families resigned to financial ruin a chance to rebuild,'' Mr. Obama said. ''By bringing down the foreclosure rate, it will help shore up housing prices for everyone.''
None of those hopes came to pass.
In fairness, Mr. Obama confronted a daunting challenge: a foreclosure crisis without precedent since the Great Depression. The Bush administration already had tried several weak foreclosure relief programs.
In October 2008, as financial calamity loomed, President Bush signed the $700 billion bank bailout known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. At the insistence of Congressional Democrats, he agreed to plow billions of dollars into foreclosure prevention.
When the newly elected Obama administration drew up program guidelines, officials concluded they could neither force servicers to participate nor fine them for poor performance.
This, critics say, was a mistake.
''The banks were so despised, and TARP was so front and center, you could have actually done something,'' said Katherine M. Porter, a visiting law professor at Harvard. ''In the midst of real boldness in bailing out the banks, we get this timid, soft, voluntary conditional program.''
Treasury officials say this is an unfair accounting. In those harried days in early 2009, no one knew how much stress near-insolvent banks could withstand. And officials tried to fine-tune the mortgage program, adding elements and redirecting unused billions of dollars into the most distressed regions.
Each new version, however, added layers of complication.
Administration officials also cite unrealistic expectations, saying they underestimated the complexity of modifying millions of troubled loans. ''I wish the three to four million had never been uttered,'' said Peter Swire, a former special assistant to Mr. Obama for economic policy.
Critics wave off such arguments. The Obama administration, they say, could have flexed its muscles.
The president could publicly challenge bank officials. Treasury officials could withhold payments. The administration could buy troubled mortgages at a discount and modify loans on its own.
''We needed to go out and fine the five worst offenders,'' said a former administration official familiar with internal discussions, who was not allowed to talk publicly given his current position. ''In hindsight, I'm almost certain we would have been well served by taking the risk and being challenged in court.''
Dysfunctional System
To listen to a handful of Bank of America employees speak candidly about the mortgage program is to hear deep frustration with their bank's performance. Their accounts, offered on the condition of anonymity as they are not allowed to talk to the press, dovetail with lawsuits filed by state attorneys general in Nevada and Arizona. (A coalition of state attorneys general is pushing an expanded foreclosure rescue plan that would impose fines on recalcitrant banks.)
Bank of America, these employees say, routinely loses documents. One department does not talk to another. Applications drag on for more than a year. Sometimes the bank forecloses while homeowners are paying modified loans. And homeowners who are denied face an imposing bundle of late fees and back-payments.
A bank employee says she often advises homeowners not to apply, given the slim chances for success.
''Many of these people are losing their homes,'' she said. ''The paperwork that sets them up is not detailed enough. It does not tell the customer the consequences of going forward with this.''
Dan B. Frahm, a Bank of America spokesman, acknowledged that the bank had made its share of mistakes, including losing too many documents. But it faced a narrow window to carry out a complex and ever-changing program, he said.
''We have completed more modification under HAMP (106,000) than any other participating servicer, and have more active modifications than other participants as well,'' Mr. Frahm wrote in an e-mail, using the program's shorthand name. ''We continue to improve performance.''
For years, loan servicing departments acted as money machines for banks. They collected payments and foreclosed on the occasional delinquent homeowner.
But a foreclosure flood rolled in by 2007, and servicers all but drowned. The government's program added to the problem. At first, Treasury allowed homeowners to apply without proof of income, figuring that quick relief might save homes. It later demanded income verification, loosing another flood, as homeowners sent in piles of documents by fax.
Federal regulators added their own confusion of overlapping authority and conflicts of interest.
Treasury hired Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two government-controlled mortgage finance giants, to oversee the program. This decision was problematic. As the Congressional Oversight Panel noted, these agencies ''are highly conflicted because they hold the credit risk on most mortgages in the United States and have their own operational concerns.''
As if to underscore that point, Freddie Mac filed documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission noting that imposing penalties on banks could ''negatively impact our relationships with these sellers/servicers, some of which are among our largest sources of mortgage loans.''
Treasury has paid the agencies a combined $212 million to administer the program.
The Treasury Department, too, was a reluctant enforcer, declining to impose fines or demand repayments. ''This was structured as a voluntary program,'' said Timothy Massad, acting assistant secretary. ''We do not have the power to impose fines.''
Mr. Barofsky, the special inspector general, waves off protestations of powerlessness. How, he asked, could Treasury sign agreements to pay billions to banks without penalties for failure to comply?
''Treasury wasn't willing to kick them in the only place that matters: in the pocketbook,'' he said.
Mortgage Problems
In private conversations, senior Treasury officials offer an often-heard critique: Homeowners failed the program. That is, Americans were in far worse shape -- jobless, underwater on mortgages and with terrible credit -- than anyone realized in 2009.
Daily encounters in county courthouses suggest this is overstated. Homeowners bring in foot-high piles of paper documenting income, credit reports and loan payments. Some missed a payment or two, but many are not deadbeats.
Yet they cannot obtain a modification.
In Staten Island, The New York Times examined eight cases where homeowners seemed to possess the income and credit scores to qualify for the program. Yet after months of trying, even with the help of Staten Island Legal Services, not one has obtained a permanent modification.
Any single case speaks as eloquently as another.
Eric and Annette Padilla bought their home in 2003. Then Mr. Padilla fell ill and Ms. Padilla quit her job to care for him, and the couple fell behind on their mortgage in 2009. (Their income dropped to less than $60,000, from $96,000.)
They applied for the program through their bank, HSBC, and received a three-month modification. They made the payments on time. In August 2009, they requested a permanent modification.
The Padillas called the bank every week. One representative said their file was incomplete, another asked for more documents, a third said the documents were there all along.
In September, the bank said their documents had ''become stale'' and told them to resubmit. Eventually, they were given a new temporary modification. Once again they made every payment on time.
In January 2010, they sought another permanent modification. Then they heard back from HSBC: denied. The reason? The couple had overpaid one month.
Last summer, HSBC filed papers to foreclose against the Padillas. For Mr. Padilla, 41, the house was his step out of the housing projects; he has no intention of surrendering.
''I ask myself sometimes, why is this happening?'' he says. ''Wasn't this program set up for hard-working people like us?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''I love my house,'' said Ada Caceres, left, with Yolanda Buffanti, who are fighting for their Staten Island home, below. ''It's a good neighborhood,'' she said, but at times, ''you want to just give up.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARY DiBIASE BLAICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) CHART: Falling Home Prices: Housing prices slid again in January, bringing them near their recession lows and back to the same level as June 2003. (Source: S.&P./Case-Shiller 20-city index) (A1)
 GRAPHIC: Goals Unmet: Far fewer homeowners have benefited from the Home Affordable Modification Program than the millions originally projected. (Source: Treasury Dept.) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); US DOLLAR (69%); LITIGATION (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); ZOE LOFGREN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



707 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Data Buoys Investors

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks finished broadly higher on Tuesday after consumer confidence fell less than some analysts had feared. All 10 company groups that make up the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose more than 0.3 percent. 
The S.& P. index rose 9.25 points, or 0.71 percent, to 1,319.44. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 81.13 points, or 0.67 percent, to 12,279.01. The Nasdaq composite rose 26.21 points, or 0.96 percent, to 2,756.89.
Rising gas prices helped drag down consumer confidence in March. The Conference Board said its confidence index dropped to 63.4 from 72 in February.
The fall comes after five consecutive months of gains, but some economists had expected the decline to be even worse. Goldman Sachs had forecast a drop to 60, believing that high gas prices would pinch spending. The University of Michigan confidence survey also took a steep fall last week.
The Conference Board survey also had a surprising result: the index measuring consumers' assessment of current conditions gained from February, putting it at the highest level since November 2008.
''Now, you can't say things are going worse than they were a month ago,'' said Thomas Simons, money market economist at Jefferies & Company.
Home Depot rose 2.9 percent, the most of the 30 companies in the Dow Jones industrial average. The retailer said it would buy $1 billion of its own stock with cash from selling bonds.
Stocks started lower after a report showed that home prices had fallen in 18 of the 20 large cities tracked by the S.& P./Case-Shiller index. Washington and San Diego were the only cities in which prices rose. Prices have fallen 3 percent over all in the last year.
Lennar fell 3.4 percent on news that housing prices had dropped in most major cities even after the home builder reported a surprise profit for the latest quarter. Other home builders fell, too. KB Home dropped 1.9 percent. Toll Brothers slipped 0.2 percent.
General Electric rose 0.6 percent after announcing plans to buy 90 percent of Converteam, a France-based electrical equipment maker.
Two stocks fell for every one that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. Consolidated volume came to 3.6 billion shares.
Interest rates rose in reaction to a weaker-than-expected auction of five-year Treasury notes.
The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 14/32, to 101 4/32, and the yield rose to 3.49 percent from 3.44 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); BONDS (78%); AUCTIONS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); RETAILERS (73%); HOME CENTERS (70%); ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE & EQUIPMENT MFG (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (67%); CONVERTEAM GROUP SAS (52%); KB HOME CORP (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); KBH (NYSE) (52%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS (52%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (52%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



708 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: In Congress, Bills to Speed Unwinding Of 2 Giants

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- House Republicans announced a package of eight bills on Tuesday that would wind down the mortgage finance giants, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, more quickly than the Obama administration proposed.
The proposals would dismantle Fannie and Freddie in a most ironic manner. The mortgage giants thrived for decades by behaving like private companies at public expense. The cumulative effect of the eight bills would make the companies behave like federal agencies while stripping away the advantages.
Fannie and Freddie would be required to pay their employees according to federal wage scales. The companies would be subjected to regular oversight by an inspector general and required to ask Treasury before borrowing money. 
But at the same time, the companies, which provide financing to lenders, would be required to charge the same prices as private investors. They would be prevented from serving their basic purpose as a source of cheap money for mortgage loans.
''This will allow more private-market participation in the housing finance market, which is critical for the long-term health of the housing market and the overall economy,'' said Representative Randy Neugebauer, a Texas Republican who is one of the eight party leaders who are each sponsoring one piece of the legislative package.
The proposal to shut down Fannie and Freddie answers a promise made by many House Republicans during the midterm elections. And by proposing eight separate bills, Republicans have preserved considerable flexibility to negotiate with the White House, increasing the chances that some elements will succeed.
There already is agreement that the companies should be closed, gradually allowing private investors the opportunity to finance mortgage loans.
The main difference is a question of timing. The Republican plan would require Fannie and Freddie to stop subsidizing mortgage loans through low-cost financing over the next two years, and to sell most of their enormous mortgage holdings over the next five years.
The administration envisions a process that may take a decade and it has shown no eagerness to begin while housing remains in the doldrums.
''We look forward to working with Congress to wind down the G.S.E.'s at a pace that does not damage the fragile housing market or threaten the ongoing economic recovery,'' a Treasury spokesman, Steven Adamske, said, using the abbreviation for a government-sponsored enterprise.
The consequences of this disagreement were on display Tuesday as the administration introduced new rules intended to discourage reckless lending.
The rules require banks to retain some risk of loss when they sell loans to investors, except for loans made on the most conservative terms, including a down payment of at least 20 percent. But the rules also stipulate that loans sold to Fannie and Freddie are not subject to the requirement so long as the companies remain wards of the state.
Almost all the financing for new mortgage loans continues to flow through the federal government, and the administration is concerned that any new roadblocks would exacerbate the woes of the housing market. Moreover, the government can prevent Fannie and Freddie from using the exception to acquire high-risk loans.
House Republicans, however, say that investors will not return until the government leaves. One bill proposed Tuesday would make lenders retain risk even when they sell off loans to Fannie and Freddie.
Representative Scott Garrett, the New Jersey Republican who is chairman of the subcommittee that oversees Fannie and Freddie, said it was time to start the process.
''We have to make certain that government policies do not continue to crowd out the private sector,'' Mr. Garrett said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICS (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); RANDY NEUGEBAUER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



709 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Obama Adviser on Consumer Agency to Address Business Leaders

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Elizabeth Warren, who is overseeing the beginnings of the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, will confront some of her chief antagonists on Wednesday when she addresses a gathering at the United States Chamber of Commerce, the business lobbying group that has adamantly opposed the existence of the agency. 
''I've had more teasing about this meeting than I've had in a long time,'' Ms. Warren is scheduled to tell the gathering, according to excerpts of remarks released late Tuesday. ''You can imagine the analogies: Nixon to China, Daniel in the Lion's Den, Senator John Kennedy speaking before Protestant ministers.''
Ms. Warren is expected to stress that she and the chamber's members share one important belief: ''Competitive markets are good for consumers and for businesses,'' according to the excerpts. ''The important question is how to ensure that markets are competitive.''
Ms. Warren, who is an assistant to the president and a special adviser to the secretary of the Treasury, received a lashing from Republicans two weeks ago at her first appearance on Capitol Hill after beginning her role at the consumer bureau.
During the hearing, Republicans on the House Financial Services Committee castigated the agency, calling it unnecessary and saying it will overly burden businesses with regulatory red tape. Republicans and Chamber members have also complained that the bureau lacks oversight and that its powers are too broad.
Ms. Warren, a Harvard law professor whose writings about the importance of protecting consumers were an inspiration for the new bureau, will tell the business group that making sure that the rules are enforced is the best solution for the problems that became apparent during the financial crisis.
''A cop on the beat looking out for consumers does not reduce the freedom or effectiveness of markets; rather, it permits honest competition to flourish,'' her remarks say. ''If you are one of the guys who don't use steroids when you play ball, then you don't want to compete against those who are juicing. We understand that it isn't enough to have good rules; competition flourishes only when those rules are consistently enforced.''
The bureau is not allowed to enact any new regulations until a director is appointed, and though one is expected by July 21, when the bureau is supposed to be operational, the Obama administration has not signaled when the appointment might come. Mr. Obama stopped short of formally nominating Ms. Warren as its first director because she would have had to face Senate confirmation.
So far, the bureau has indicated that much of its initial attention will be on consumer mortgages and simplifying the confusing array of mortgage disclosures that home buyers face.
''Fine print and overly long agreements get in the way of an efficient and competitive market,'' Ms. Warren is expected to say. ''The role of regulation in credit markets is, at its heart, to make it easy for consumers to see what they are getting and to make it easy for customers to compare one product with another, so that markets can function effectively.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LAW (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LOBBYING (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%); STEROIDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (84%); BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (84%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); JOHN F KENNEDY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2011



710 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths COOPER, MULLIN, JOHN FULHAM

 BODY:
COOPER-MULLIN--John Fulham, died of pancreatic cancer at his home in Irvington, New York, on March 29, 2011. He was 58. John was born February 10, 1953, in Cleveland, Ohio, to Margaret Fulham Mullin and Samuel Stephen Mullin (deceased). He graduated from St. Ignatius High School in Cleveland in 1971 and graduated cum laude from Bowdoin College with a degree in History and Economics in 1975. At Bowdoin John was an outstanding thespian, winning the George H. Quinby Award and the Abraham Goldberg Prize. In 1979 he received an MBA from Columbia Business School. 
John was a Managing Director at Rothschild, Inc. from 1989 until 2000. He left to establish Redwall Partners, a firm specializing in international transactions and recapitalizations. A division of RP&C International (Securities) Inc., Redwall has offices in New York and London. John was a founding member of the Irvington Education Association and served on the Irvington Business Committee as well. He was a member of The Scarsdale Congregational Church and served as treasurer of Broadway Housing Communities. He was a regular in the Irvington men's Sunday morning basketball game and an avid biker, kayaker, and skier. John was blessed with a beautiful singing voice that brought joy to many. He loved debate and never shied away from a political discussion. He is survived by his college sweetheart and wife Alison; their daughters Emma, Clara, Elizabeth, and Rebecca; his mother; his brother Sam and his sisters Ann, Mary, Margaret, and Barbara and their spouses; his mother-in-law and father-in-law Gloria and Wally Cooper; his sister-in-law Julie and her spouse; and his twenty-one loving nephews and nieces. Funeral services will be held at The Scarsdale Congregational Church, One Heathcote Road, Scarsdale, on Saturday April 2, at 10am. Donations in his memory may be made to Broadway Housing Communities, 583 Riverside Drive, New York, NY 10031. Broadway Housing is a non profit committed to providing innovative permanent housing for individuals and families in the greatest need.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (84%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); FAMILY (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); CANCER (73%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (71%); BASKETBALL (66%)

COMPANY: ROTHSCHILD INC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



711 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Some Rabbinical Students To Get State Tuition Aid

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
The state budget plan that moved toward enactment on Wednesday calls for 10 percent cuts in aid to public colleges and universities, but it would add about $18 million a year in tuition assistance for students attending some private religious schools.
The added money would be available to any theological student who met a new set of criteria for the state's so-called Tuition Assistance Program grants. The major potential beneficiaries would be an estimated 5,000 men who attend dozens of Orthodox rabbinical schools in New York, state officials and religious leaders said. 
Assemblyman Dov Hikind, a Democrat whose Brooklyn district includes a large Orthodox population, called the additional financing ''a matter of equity, to rectify the fact that New York State has denied rabbinical college students tuition assistance for all these years.''
Mr. Hikind and other lawmakers have sought unsuccessfully for about 10 years to adopt the new criteria by amending the Tuition Assistance Program rules, eliminating a long-established ban on state tuition assistance for undergraduate students who attend religious schools, like yeshivas, that are not chartered by the state Board of Regents.
In negotiations this month, Republican leaders in the Senate asked that the new rules be included as part of the 2011-12 budget agreement. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Democratic leaders in the Assembly have agreed, said Jeffrey Gordon, a spokesman for the State Division of the Budget.
Some opponents of the rule changes have said they violate the spirit, if not the letter, of the Constitution.
Joseph Conn, a spokesman for the Washington-based Americans United for the Separation of Church and State, said his group had tracked legislative efforts to extend state tuition aid to religious students in New York.
''By burying this measure in a budget bill, we were caught off guard,'' he said.
Assemblywoman Deborah Glick, a Manhattan Democrat who is the chairwoman of the state Assembly's Higher Education Committee, said last year that she opposed expanding eligibility to students attending private institutions while the state was cutting spending and reducing access to public institutions. Ms. Glick did not return phone calls on Wednesday about whether she backed the change this year. David Zweibel, executive vice president of Agudath Israel of America, an Orthodox Jewish advocacy group that has lobbied for the new rules in tuition aid, said the new regulations did not violate church-state separation because the aid would go directly to the student, not to the religious institution.
''To those who have said, 'How can you ask for this in these tough economic times?' '' he added, ''My answer is, yes, it's a tough time. But it's about time.'' Students attending religious colleges are no less in need of tuition assistance than any others, he added.
Students who meet the financial eligibility and other requirements for Tuition Assistance Program grants may receive up to $5,000 a year for four years.
Under the new rules, students can apply for grants from the program as long as the school they attend is a tax-exempt institution, headquartered in New York, offering a program of instruction of at least three years, and eligible under federal law for Pell grants for undergraduate study. The federal tuition assistance program does not exclude students studying for the clergy.
The new New York criteria would, however, continue to exclude students of most seminaries, which accept only students who have completed college.
''The way the rules were written, they were pretty much designed'' for the undergraduate yeshivas, said Mr. Gordon, of the governor's budget office.
Mr. Zweibel, of Agudath Israel, said he was confident that others besides rabbinical students would benefit from the expansion of the eligibility rules. He said the state had been inconsistent in its policies until now.
''In a state that has been so hospitable to the growth of its Orthodox minority,'' he said, ''and with the largest group of rabbinical colleges in the country right here in New York, how could the state say to our students that no, you are not eligible for what everyone is eligible to receive?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (95%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); RELIGION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (88%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (77%); CHURCH & STATE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LEGISLATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



712 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: The Promise and Risks of Natural Gas

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Natural Gas and Clean Water'' (editorial, March 23):
In this time of energy uncertainty, it is essential that New York and the country not forgo the opportunity presented by natural gas from shale. It is the cleanest of the fossil fuels, and an affordable and abundant domestic resource. Given the incredible uncertainty in the oil-rich Middle East (and our dependence on imported oil), and the tragedy in Japan (and our dependence on aging nuclear plants), we cannot close that door.
That said, the industry has not helped itself with its inadequate performance standards, transparency and communication. Some of the best geoscientists in the world are in our top-rated research universities and institutions. They can provide an independent analysis supported by rigorous field testing. 
It is essential that the industry and the New York State government collaborate to provide the financial resources and regulatory environment that will ensure that natural gas can be produced in an environmentally safe manner.
With rigorous standards and best available technology, we can get it right. We can fuel an economic recovery, employ thousands, preserve the land and water resources, improve the air and lessen our dependence on unstable regions, while providing for a fundamentally sound energy policy.
ROBERT B. CATELL New York, March 24, 2011
The writer is chairman of the advisory board of the Advanced Energy Research and Technology Center at Stony Brook University.
To the Editor:
Your editorial ''Natural Gas and Clean Water'' is on target, but lacks a solid rationale for banning hydraulic fracturing in two of New York's watersheds but not all. The implication that a high population should exclude an area from risks associated with new energy development is poor policy, since it is those very millions who represent the demand for more energy.
Even your urban readers might agree that it would be difficult to justify a policy in which rural New Yorkers assume all the risks of new energy development in order to meet the energy demands of population centers like New York City.
STEPHANIE WEISS Clayton, N.Y., March 24, 2011
To the Editor:
You argue that the issue is not whether the country should be drilling for natural gas, but rather whether it can be done safely using hydraulic fracturing. We agree, but we also believe that more than one million wells that have been drilled using hydraulic fracturing over the past six decades offer an emphatic answer to that question. Yes, it can.
Under state regulation, which we support, hydraulic fracturing can continue to provide American consumers with the clean-burning natural gas they will need for decades to come. And it can continue doing so without harming drinking water supplies. Our environment is important, and that's why we support vigorous state regulation and disclosure of the materials used in fracturing.
But we cannot let unfounded fears about hydraulic fracturing deprive us of the domestic natural gas production that would be lost if hydraulic fracturing were to be banned or severely restricted -- particularly in light of recent developments in Japan and the Middle East. Nor can we let exaggerated suspicions deprive the people of New York, Pennsylvania and other states of the hundreds of thousands of jobs that drilling in the Marcellus Shale is expected to generate.
MIKE DOYLE Executive Director New York State Petroleum Council Albany, March 24, 2011
To the Editor:
The Maryland House of Delegates recently passed what would be the country's strictest law regulating hydraulic fracturing for natural gas. The bill needs Senate approval, and the governor has expressed his support.
The comprehensive bill requires a scientific finding that hydraulic fracturing is not harmful to humans or the environment before any drilling takes place. It sets a reasonable time frame (two years) for completion of a state study; the federal Environmental Protection Agency is also studying the issue.
It takes time to determine whether an invasive process with the potential to destroy drinking water resources is not only profitable for industry and the large landowners it relies on but also safe. Wouldn't it be foolish to do it any other way?
PAUL ROBERTS Friendsville, Md., March 24, 2011

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MAXWELL HOLYOKE-HIRSCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); WATER QUALITY (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (74%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); POWER PLANTS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: ROBERT B CATELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



713 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE TRADE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: In Debate Over Bank Capital Rules, a Trans-Atlantic Gulf

BYLINE: By JESSE EISINGER. 
Jesse Eisinger is a reporter for ProPublica, an independent, nonprofit newsroom that produces investigative journalism in the public interest. Email: jesse@propublica.org Twitter: @eisingerj.

 BODY:
Anat Admati, a professor at the Stanford Graduate School of Business.
The United States and Britain are two countries separated by a common financial crisis.
Since the crisis, Anat Admati and her colleagues have been arguing for higher bank capital standards to make the financial system safer. In this country, Professor Admati, who teaches economics and finance at the Stanford business school, has been a voice in the wilderness. In London, she finds a more receptive audience. ''The U.S. is so much friendlier to the banks than the U.K.,'' she says. ''You just try to get a word in - well, the level of the debate is not the same.''
Over there, major government figures speak openly about requiring substantially higher bank capital. The governor of the Bank of England, the head of the Financial Services Authority (the equivalent of the Securities and Exchange Commission) and even the conservative chancellor of the Exchequer have backed a bigger crackdown on the banking sector. While the international banking rules, called Basel III, settled on 7 percent as the minimum standard for a certain kind of capital, it's acceptable in Britain to talk about having significantly higher standards. A recent Bank of England paper contemplated capital on the order of 15 to 20 percent. 
Here, that thought is restricted to cranks and university professors. Though the big three - Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman; Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner; and Mary L. Schapiro, the Securities and Exchange Commission chairwoman - have made supportive noises about higher capital, they have not come close to advocating something that radical and substantial. Here, when the Federal Reserve Bank of New York writes a paper on capital requirements, the economists focus on the costs and exclude any examination of the benefits.
The difference in attitudes between the Americans and the British reflects the difference in severity between our crisis and theirs. Ours was serious; theirs was an utter calamity. The British have an even more concentrated banking system than we do, and a greater dependence on the financial sector, which meant a more severe crisis.
The American debate over bank capital isn't supposed to be over. Later this year, under the Dodd-Frank rules, regulators have to decide what the capital requirements will be for ''systemically important financial institutions'' and how they should be weighted for risky assets. Giant, enmeshed firms will be required to hold more capital than smaller banks with fewer ties to other entities in the financial system.
But on March 18, the banks threw a knock-down punch against the proponents of substantially higher capital standards. This was the result of Round 2 of the central bank's stress tests, which amounted largely to a self-graded exam. The Fed, the main regulator for the nation's largest banks, gave most of the big banks a green light to start paying dividends to shareholders. Curtailing dividend payments would have been the fastest, cheapest way for banks to build up capital.
Since all but a few of the biggest financial firms are being allowed to pay dividends, any argument that they should have significantly higher capital requirements is untenable.
The Federal Reserve wasn't a total pushover. Citigroup didn't even try to request permission to pay a meaningful dividend. Bank of America was told no. That was an embarrassment for Brian Moynihan, the chief executive for just over a year. In January, Mr. Moynihan told investors to expect a payout later this year. But the Fed held the line, presumably concerned about, among other things, Bank of America's exposure to bad mortgages and other problems inherited in its purchase of Countrywide.
Still, other banks sailed through, including SunTrust and KeyCorp, two regional banks that investors still view as fragile. Both were able to borrow money to repay the government's Troubled Asset Relief Program investment. Few banks have replaced the government's money with equity capital on a dollar-for-dollar basis, but SunTrust and KeyCorp are being allowed to raise relatively little equity to pay off the Feds.
The banks decry any contemplation of an increase in capital standards as a death knell for economic growth. Professor Admati is struck by the similarities the debate has to the one over stock option expensing that raged through the 1990s. The technology industry denounced such proposals as sure job killers, and politicians like Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut defended the accounting treatment. Finally, expensing regulations were put in place and the world failed to end. Indeed, Silicon Valley baristas, at last report, were frothing up a new tech frenzy, options expensing be damned.
This time around, the banks argue that they need extra leverage or they won't be able to lend freely. This is flawed logic. Clearly, not all lending is good lending. We just emerged from an era of spectacularly reckless lending.
Professor Admati argues that the economy will be better off with better capitalized banks. ''There isn't a real economic reason, as we are figuring out how to have safe and healthy system, why money should go out of the banks.''
Obviously, higher capital cushions are not in the immediate interests of the equity holders - including top bank executives - for whom leverage creates higher returns.
Many of the differences between the United States and Britain are superficial: one banker's elevator is another's lift. But the intertwined nature of the world's capital markets makes it likely that American compromises will eventually erode British insistence on higher capital standards.
The result may add up to more than a matter of semantics.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Online Correction: March 30, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A previous version of this post misspelled the surname of a professor at the Stanford Graduate School of Business. It is Anat Admati.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Osborne, left, chancellor of the Exchequer
Anat Admati, a Stanford Graduate School of Business professor
and Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England, advocate higher capitalization requirements for big banks. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OLI SCARFF/GETTY IMAGES
 TONY AVELAR/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (66%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (58%); BEN BERNANKE (56%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (52%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



714 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: They've Got to Fix Their Priorities: While the rest of the country struggles, the Fed has decided to reward bankers

 BODY:
The banks may have weathered the financial crisis, but the rest of the country hasn't. Taxpayers are still on the hook for federally guaranteed bank debt. Homeowners' equity continues to erode. Small businesses still have trouble getting loans, and savers are still getting hammered by near zero interest rates. Joblessness remains high. State budgets are ravaged. 
So whom have Washington policy makers singled out for help? Bank shareholders, including bank executives who are invariably big holders of stock in their banks.
The Federal Reserve recently gave the all-clear for several banks to increase dividends and expand share buybacks, among them JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs. That's good news, at least in the short run for bank investors, but it is a dubious development for everyone else.
The dividend-boosting banks that were too big to fail before the crisis are even bigger now, while reforms to rein them in are under political attack even before they have been implemented. Sheer size and inadequate regulation -- the combination that led to the crisis -- argue for banks to use their earnings to build bigger capital cushions, not to pay dividends and repurchase shares.
Yet Fed officials have concluded that many banks are safe and sound enough to pay out cash and still withstand a severe shock should one occur again. It's hard to share their confidence. Before it approved new dividends, the Fed required banks to test their crisis-readiness against several criteria, like elevated unemployment, but it did not release detailed results of the tests. Public data do not inspire confidence either. There is much debate over whether banks are valuing their mortgage assets correctly, and, by extension, whether they are adequately capitalized.
What is known is that recent bank profits have been boosted not by increasing revenues, but by downward revisions to expected future losses. With house prices falling anew, further reducing the value of mortgage assets, how reasonable is that?
Even if banks were ready for anything, more dividends and buybacks still would be premature. Big banks that plan to increase payouts still hold nearly $120 billion in government-backed debt under a crisis-era program from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The subsidized bonds come due between now and the end of 2012. Paying shareholders before the bonds are retired puts bank investors before taxpayers -- talk about skewed priorities. Banks also face potentially huge fines in court cases and in settlement talks with government officials over mortgage and foreclosure practices that have harmed both homeowners and mortgage investors. It is irresponsible for the Fed to allow bolstered dividends before the penalties are known and paid. It is also a disturbing omen. Regulators are part of the settlement talks over the banks' wrongful practices. Are they assuming that banks can afford both stiff penalties and bolstered dividends? Or are they assuming that the penalties will be weak?
When it comes to redress and reward, bank shareholders should be at the back of the line, behind taxpayers who stand behind too-big-to-fail banks and behind homeowners who are bearing the brunt of a housing debacle for which banks bear considerable responsibility. For the Fed to allow new dividends and bigger buybacks before these issues are settled is a display of the same type of ''banks first'' favoritism that got us into this mess to start.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



715 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Private Employers Hired 201,000 in March

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Private employers added 201,000 jobs in March, while February's figure was revised down slightly, a report by a payrolls processor showed Wednesday. 
The data was largely in line with expectations. Economists surveyed by Reuters had forecast that the report, from ADP Employer Services, would show a gain of 203,000 jobs. The report is jointly developed with Macroeconomic Advisers LLC.
February's figure was revised down to 208,000 from 217,000.
''Basically the number was very much in line with expectations and shows that the labor recovery continues at a reasonable pace,'' said David Katz, chief investment officer at Matrix Asset Advisors in New York.
''It looks like the U.S. economic recovery continues, and the improving labor market should be a buffer against weak areas like real estate.''
Treasury prices rose modestly immediately after the data and the United States dollar trimmed gains against the euro and yen, while stock index futures remained higher.
The ADP figures come ahead of the government's much more comprehensive labor market report on Friday, which includes both public and private sector employment.
That report is expected to show the economy created about 190,000 jobs in March based on a Reuters poll of analysts, while private payrolls are forecast to rise by 200,000.
Economists often refer to the ADP report to fine-tune their expectations for the payrolls numbers, though it is not always accurate in predicting the outcome.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); BOND MARKETS (69%); EURO (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); FUTURES (67%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (84%); MATRIX ASSET ADVISORS INC (57%)

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



716 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Dancing Past Censors: 1500s Chinese Erotica

BYLINE: By SHEILA MELVIN

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The Experimental Theater of Central Academy of Drama is tucked away in a warren of ancient streets named for goods long ago sold there -- Fried Bean Lane and East Cotton Alley -- that nowadays are lined with small shops and cafes.
Never easy to find, the theater was particularly forbidding on a frigid evening in late January, when the gate to the entire complex stood locked and guarded, opened only to those in possession of a printed invitation to the event within: a dress rehearsal for the Beijing Dance Theater's adaptation of ''Jin Ping Mei,'' or ''The Golden Lotus.'' The piece had its premiere last weekend at the Hong Kong Arts Festival, which commissioned it.
The veil of caution that surrounded the rehearsal is par for the course with any adaptation of ''Jin Ping Mei,'' a Ming dynasty novel usually prefaced with adjectives like ''pornographic'' and ''notorious.'' It has been banned in China because of its explicit sex by successive governments, starting with the Kangxi Emperor in 1687. 
In 1939 its first English translator, Clement Egerton, professed himself acutely embarrassed by the 70 sex scenes, which he rendered in Latin to avoid censorship. Its most recent translator, David Tod Roy, faced no such limitations in his masterly translation published in the United States, but only three of its four volumes have been published.
While the bans in China have limited the book's circulation, they have done little to stem its popularity. Copies are downloaded from the Internet, sneaked in from Taiwan and Hong Kong and sold on the street by unlicensed publishers. Indeed, Kangxi's own brother spent years translating it into his native Manchu, and the book is known to this day as ''the fifth classic novel'' of the Chinese literary canon.
Creating a production that cannot be performed in China proper, at least as it is currently titled, might seem a questionable strategy for a fledgling private dance company that depends on sponsorship for its existence, and that cites as its goals the promotion of modern dance in China and of Chinese culture overseas. It is, however, in keeping with the fierce sense of artistic freedom of the dance troupe's director, Wang Yuanyuan, and her strong belief in the company's obligation to make socially relevant works.
At the start of the rehearsal, Ms. Wang, who also choreographed the work, acknowledged the production's peculiar status.
''It is unfortunate that we won't be able to perform it here,'' she told the invited audience. ''But if you have any suggestions for improving it, please give them to me.''
And with that, the house lights dimmed, the music began with an ominous bell chime, and a black and gold curtain rose to reveal a jumble of seemingly nude dancers linked together in a pile of flesh. At the center of this dances the antihero of ''Jin Ping Mei,'' the insatiable and corrupt Ximen Qing.
When a lone woman -- the equally infamous Pan Jinlian -- passes by and stops to watch the orgy, she catches Ximen's attention. He chases her home, and they dance a scene of passionate lovemaking, with Pan refusing to stop even when her benighted husband, the dwarf Wu Dalang, appears at the window. When the enraged Wu enters his home, the couple murder him, and Pan runs off to become Ximen's fifth (but not final) wife, setting the stage for a tale of familial intrigue and debauchery that has enthralled readers for centuries.
This powerfully danced version, tightly choreographed, beautifully designed (by the Oscar-winning Tim Yip) and musically rich (composed by Du Wei, with the Paris-based composer Chen Qigang as consultant) is also likely to captivate anyone able to see it.
'' 'Jin Ping Mei' was written in the Ming dynasty, in a rotten society,'' Ms. Wang said during an interview at her spacious studio. ''But the social phenomenon is the same now. People will do anything for money and they want everything quickly -- there is no moral concept. If you have money, you're No. 1.''
Indeed, though ''Jin Ping Mei'' is set in the commercially prosperous Northern Song dynasty, it has been viewed as a richly embroidered critique of contemporary corruption and greed since it first appeared in manuscript form around 1595.
Its author used a pen name -- the Scoffing Scholar of Lanling -- and his true identity is unknown. Popular but unverifiable tradition attributes the work to the Confucian scholar Wang Shicheng, who is said to have dashed off the 1,600-page novel with its cast of hundreds in six weeks to get revenge on the decadent Yen Shifan, the son of the man he blamed for his father's death.
According to this story, Wang created the character of Ximen Qing to satirize Yen, and then sent him the manuscript as a gift, after rubbing grains of poison into the corner of each page so that Yen would slowly ingest them when he wet his finger in his mouth to turn the pages. Yen is said to have read voraciously to the end -- and then dropped dead.
''Jin Ping Mei'' follows another production by the dance company that doubles as social commentary, the critically acclaimed ''Haze,'' in which dancers perform on mattresses that throw them off balance.
''The idea for 'Haze' originally came from Beijing's environment,'' said Ling Meng, the company's executive producer, ''as well as the instability of the global economy. Young people feel confused about the future, and this is reflected by the floor; even a very simple movement is different for the dancers, and requires a lot of energy. But, finally, they stop being afraid to fall.''
''Haze'' will be performed in late May in Bonn and in Reykjavik, Iceland; at Beijing's National Center for the Performing Arts in June; and in October at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the Kennedy Center in Washington and at Sadler's Wells in London.
Between ''Jin Ping Mei'' and the overseas tour of ''Haze,'' the Beijing Dance Theater will create two new programs to have their premieres in China. ''Middle,'' with the French choreographer Anthony Egea, incorporates hip-hop, ballet and tai chi. The second piece, ''Hesitation,'' to be created with the theater director Lin Zhaohua, is based on another famous literary work: a collection of dark short stories by the 20th-century scholar Lu Xun.
''If you are only seeking money, you will take the wrong road and you will never return,'' Ms. Wang said. ''You have to maintain your purity. I will do whatever I need to preserve my own integrity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Beijing Dance Theater's adaptation of ''Jin Ping Mei,'' which had its premiere last weekend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LI HUIMIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (90%); CENSORSHIP (90%); THEATER (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (88%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); DANCERS (75%); FESTIVALS (75%); LITERATURE (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); PORNOGRAPHY (72%); PUBLISHING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (94%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (78%); TAIWAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



717 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Energy; ENERGY: A SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Start-Ups Work to Reinvent the Combustion Engine

BYLINE: By TODD WOODY

 BODY:
BERKELEY, Calif.
IN this city where Toyota Priuses clog the roads and battery-powered Tesla Roadsters and Chevrolet Volts can be spotted at the organic farmers market, the engine factory in a gritty industrial neighborhood near San Francisco Bay is a throwback to the automotive past.
Or a harbinger of the future. In the middle of a metal building, stacked with hulking racecar engines from the internal combustion engine's golden age, sits a small contraption hooked to a forest of red, white and green wires and tubes that hang from the ceiling and snake around the floor.
In a control room at Hasselgren Engineering, a technician flips a switch and the device roars to life as a large computer screen displays the performance of this new type of engine, which its developer, Pinnacle Engines, says will be up to 50 percent more efficient than today's power plants.
As the first mass-produced electric cars hit the streets, Pinnacle is just one of several start-ups backed by prominent Silicon Valley venture capitalists aiming to reinvent the century-old internal combustion engine. The big promise: vast improvements in fuel economy and reduced greenhouse gas emissions at a lower cost. 
''While the buzz is all about electrics, the people who will actually adopt electrics are not a majority of the market,'' said Monty Cleeves, who has kept Pinnacle under wraps since he founded the company in 2007. ''The impact we will have over the next 15 to 20 years will be much larger than the impact of the electrics.''
Not long ago, the idea that entrepreneurs could attract tens of millions of dollars in venture capital to develop a new kind of engine would have seemed ludicrous. The big automakers have kept engine development to themselves, steadily improving the performance of a profitable technology that has served them well for more than a 100 years.
''Our engines are built into the DNA of our vehicles,'' said Brett Hinds, engine design manager for Ford in Dearborn, Mich. ''We at Ford are still committed to thinking of engines as part of our fundamentals.''
But the upheaval in the global car industry, new fuel efficiency standards for commercial vehicles, climate change concerns and the rise of China and India as automotive markets have opened the door to start-ups like Pinnacle
''Many automotive houses don't buy engines from outside, but in the truck market people do,'' said Rohini Chakravarthy, a partner at NEA, a venture capital firm in Menlo Park, Calif., that has invested in Pinnacle. ''In Asia, there's tremendous demand, and you're not going up against the same level of incumbents.''
Pinnacle executives, for instance, said they had signed a deal to license their engine technology to a major Asian scooter manufacturer, which they declined to identify, for production in early 2013.
EcoMotors, a Detroit area start-up backed by Khosla Ventures and Bill Gates, has signed a development agreement with Navistar, the heavy truck and engine manufacturer, and a Chinese company it would not name. Achates Power, a San Diego engine start-up, is in talks with automakers, according to its chief executive, David Johnson, who said he also had met with potential customers in China and India.
All three companies are developing variations on an opposed piston engine, a technology used in airplanes and ships in the mid-20th century, but long considered too expensive and unworkable for automobiles.
Opposed piston engines eliminate the cylinder head, which serves as the combustion chamber for a conventional engine. Instead, two pistons face each other and the space between them forms the combustion chamber where fuel is ignited. Discarding the heavy cylinder head allows opposed piston engines to be lighter and cheaper to make. Typically, two-thirds of the energy generated by a conventional engine is wasted as heat; an opposed piston design is able to tap more energy to propel a vehicle.
The challenge has been to create a reliable opposed piston engine suitable for vehicles, something Mr. Cleeves said he had been pondering since he was a mechanical engineering student 40 years ago.
In the late 1970s, he began working in the burgeoning computer chip industry that was transforming the apricot and plum orchards of the Santa Clara Valley into Silicon Valley.
''I stayed 30 years in semiconductors as my day job, but worked on cars in the garage as my passion in the evenings,'' said Mr. Cleeves, a bespectacled and gray-bearded 59-year-old who speaks with a professorial air.
On long nighttime drives to Southern California to visit relatives, Mr. Cleeves would design engines in his head while his wife and two children slept.
''Over the course of many years and many thousands of miles, I had the chance to put the engine together, at least mentally,'' Mr. Cleeves said at Pinnacle's unmarked offices and garage in San Carlos, Calif.
The prototype being tested in Berkeley is a version of a one-cylinder, four-stroke opposed piston gasoline engine designed to power scooters and three-wheel auto rickshaws in Asia. Pinnacle executives said that 500 hours of testing verified by an independent company showed that the engine was 30 percent more efficient than current scooter engines while emitting fewer pollutants.
Executives said software simulations indicated that an automotive version of its Cleeves Cycle engine would increase the fuel economy of a Fiat 500 to 59 miles a gallon from 33 with no performance loss.
EcoMotors is also claiming up to a 50 percent improvement in efficiency for its two-stroke diesel opposed piston engine being developed for heavy-duty trucks. Conventional two-stroke engines emit more greenhouse gases and are commonly found in scooters, lawnmowers and outboard boat engines.
''We're on our sixth engine, so it's not a science fair project at this point,'' said Donald Runkle, EcoMotors' chief executive, a General Motors veteran.
The key, he said, was high power output and an electrically controlled turbocharger that resulted in a small lightweight engine with emissions comparable to a four-stroke power plant.
''You can stack these engine modules together,'' said Mr. Runkle, noting that a module can be shut down when full power is not needed, saving fuel.
Mr. Johnson, the chief executive of Achates Power, said his company's two-stroke opposed piston diesel engine would most likely be used in commercial vehicles, but it also could be installed in plug-in electric hybrid cars like the Chevrolet Volt.
''The Volt needs a better engine,'' said Mr. Johnson, adding that 1,600 hours of testing had shown Achates's engine was 15 percent more efficient than conventional diesel counterparts.
The major automakers aren't exactly sitting still. Ford claims a 20 percent improvement in fuel economy and a 15 percent reduction in emissions from its gas-turbo, direct-injection EcoBoost technology. Coming start-stop technology that shuts down a car's engine at traffic lights will increase fuel economy up to 10 percent, Ford says.
''We think your conventional inline engine is still the appropriate architecture in the near term,'' said Mr. Hinds, Ford's engine design manager.
Pinnacle's chief executive, Ron Hoge, said a bigger leap was needed. ''It's the challenge of incremental thinking versus radical thinking,'' said Mr. Hoge, a former executive at the engine maker Cummins. ''If we're only going to make incremental improvements, we're not going to solve our problems in the world, so someone has to step forward.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TESTING: Engineers at Pinnacle Engines checking a prototype of its opposed piston engine, which it says can increase fuel efficiency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE ENGINE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (87%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); EMISSIONS (66%); GREENHOUSE GASES (66%); MOTORCYCLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



718 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Now Sees Profit From Bailouts

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Take your pick: A $100 billion loss. A nearly $24 billion profit. A $100 billion profit.
When it comes to calculating the bill for the government's bailout of banks, insurers, automakers and the ailing housing market, the numbers have been all over the map.
But on Wednesday, Treasury officials laid claim to an eventual $23.6 billion gain for taxpayers on the entire rescue program, despite doubts from skeptics about just how Washington crunched the numbers. 
Indeed, as late as Tuesday afternoon, accountants from Treasury and the Office of Management and Budget were at odds over how to calculate the gains the government made on once-troubled mortgage securities it acquired at the height of the financial crisis in 2008.
As a result, on Tuesday morning the Treasury estimated it would show a $100 billion profit but by late Tuesday that had been reduced to nearly $24 billion.
Even that is debatable, however, according to lawmakers like Representative Patrick T. McHenry, Republican of North Carolina, who is chairman of the House oversight committee's bailout panel.
''The estimates have been consistently off and Treasury has consistently changed the metric for success,'' Mr. McHenry said in an interview on Wednesday. ''In the beginning, they weren't touting payback -- they touted effectiveness. Now, they are touting payback but ignoring the moral hazard this program has created.''
Treasury officials say they are actually being conservative in their profit projections. But even if that roughly $24 billion estimate proves too optimistic, the trend still represents a major turnabout from the river of red ink critics predicted. The administration itself projected a $100 billion loss only a year ago.
Why did the numbers move so wildly? For starters, asset prices improved as the economy rebounded. But some of the gains remain on paper, and profits that haven't been booked have to be continually adjusted to reflect price swings in the market. Then there are the vagaries of government accounting, like how to properly value complex mortgage securities.
What is more, the government's financial rescue remains a political hot potato, drawing criticism from the left and the right, but Obama administration officials are naturally eager to portray it as a success, especially with a budget deficit of $1.5 trillion expected in 2011.
''There is no historical precedent for a financial rescue this effective,'' the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said in an interview Tuesday. ''We are performing better than all expectations and ahead of the other countries caught up in the crisis.''
At a House Oversight subcommittee hearing on Wednesday, Treasury officials once again sparred with a government watchdog over the success of the financial rescue. In his testimony, Neil M. Barofsky, the special inspector general overseeing the bailout program, greeted the lower cost estimates as ''good news,'' but warned that the''most significant legacy may be the exacerbation of the problems posed by 'too big to fail,' particularly given the manner in which Treasury executed the bailout.''
On Wednesday, the Treasury said that KeyCorp and SunTrust Banks repaid their bailout funds, helping the government claim a $6 billion profit on the bailout program for banks. The Treasury projects it will receive another $14 billion as hundreds of smaller banks repay their bailout funds.
The Treasury is also claiming it will make a $12 billion profit when it winds down its 92 percent ownership stake in the American International Group later this year, although for now that is only on paper. It also assumes that large stake can be sold at current prices, even though unloading such a big position could depress its value.
Those gains could also disappear if several big losses materialize. The Treasury projects the bailouts of General Motors, Chrysler and Ally Financial could cost it about $15 billion, while losses from the government's beleaguered mortgage modification programs, like HAMP, could wind up reaching $46 billion. (With only about $1 billion of HAMP funds disbursed so far, bailout watchers say the actual loses could be sharply lower.)
Still, the TARP bailout was only one part of the government's rescue. Counting other federal aid programs allows the administration to radically reduce its overall cost of the effort.
As part of its analysis, the Treasury included in its profit estimates about $1.2 billion from fees it collected from federal guarantees on money market mutual funds during the crisis. It also included realized gains of $22.5 billion from a series of Federal Reserve emergency aid programs designed to get credit flowing again.
But the bulk of its gains come from a bounce-back in the value of more than $1.6 trillion in mortgage bonds and other debt that the government bought as the financial crisis worsened between 2008 and early 2010, in an effort to prop up the housing market. The Treasury has realized about $13.5 billion in income from interest payments of these bonds through the end of 2010, while the Federal Reserve has earned about $72.5 billion on a similar portfolio of securities backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Treasury officials project they will collect at least another $16 billion over the next few years.
On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York rejected a $15.7 billion offer from A.I.G. to buy back mortgage securities owned by the government, underscoring Washington's hard line in trying to maximize the value of its holdings.
Even as the Treasury collects income from the mortgage securities it owns, it is still pumping tens of billions into Fannie and Freddie, the government-controlled mortgage giants, to keep them afloat. Although the Treasury recently lowered its loss estimates, its analysis project that losses stemming from government's support of the two companies could reach $73 billion over the next decade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); INSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); TRENDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%)

PERSON: PATRICK T MCHENRY (66%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



719 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2135 words

HEADLINE: Odd Alliance: Business Lobby And Tea Party

BYLINE: By MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
The Tea Party does not have a presence in Indonesia, where the term evokes cups of orange pekoe and sweet cakes rather than angry citizens in ''Don't Tread on Me'' T-shirts.
But a Tea Party group in the United States, the Institute for Liberty, has vigorously defended the freedom of a giant Indonesian paper company to sell its wares to Americans without paying tariffs. The institute set up Web sites, published reports and organized a petition drive attacking American businesses, unions and environmentalists critical of the company, Asia Pulp & Paper.
Last fall, the institute's president, Andrew Langer, had himself videotaped on Long Wharf in Boston holding a copy of the Declaration of Independence as he compared Washington's proposed tariff on paper from Indonesia and China to Britain's colonial trade policies in 1776.
Tariff-free Asian paper may seem an unlikely cause for a nonprofit Tea Party group. But it is in keeping with a succession of pro-business campaigns -- promoting commercial space flight, palm oil imports and genetically modified alfalfa -- that have occupied the Institute for Liberty's recent agenda. 
The Tea Party movement is as deeply skeptical of big business as it is of big government. Yet an examination of the Institute for Liberty shows how Washington's influence industry has adapted itself to the Tea Party era. In a quietly arranged marriage of seemingly disparate interests, the institute and kindred groups are increasingly the bearers of corporate messages wrapped in populist Tea Party themes.
In a few instances, their corporate partners are known -- as with the billionaire Koch brothers' support of Americans for Prosperity, one of the most visible advocacy groups. More often, though, their nonprofit tax status means they do not have to reveal who pays the bills.
Mr. Langer would not say who financed his Indonesian paper initiative. But his sudden interest in the issue coincided with a public relations push by Asia Pulp & Paper. And the institute's work is remarkably similar to that produced by one of the company's consultants, a former Australian diplomat named Alan Oxley who works closely with a Washington public affairs firm known for creating corporate campaigns presented as grass-roots efforts.
For the institute, the embrace of a foreign conglomerate's agenda is a venture into new territory -- and distinguishes it among Tea Party advocacy groups. The issue, Mr. Langer asserted, is important to working Americans who might have to pay more for everything from children's books to fried-chicken buckets made of coated paper from Asia. He said the institute had not accepted money directly from Asia Pulp & Paper, though it was possible the company had paid others who then contributed to the institute.
''I suppose it could be,'' he said, but added, ''I don't know about anybody else who may have gotten money from Asia Pulp & Paper who's given money to us.''
Those on the receiving end of the institute's attacks -- strange bedfellows like Greenpeace, Staples and Asia Pulp & Paper's American competitors -- are unified in their skepticism of its motives.
''If you can spend as much money as you want and remain anonymous, then it doesn't matter if you're an overseas company or the Koch brothers, you pay the same network of anti-regulatory front groups,'' said Scott Paul, director of Greenpeace's forest campaign.
Seeing Tea Party Potential
Like many other nonprofit organizations on the Tea Party bandwagon, the Institute of Liberty predates the movement. It was created in 2005 by Jason Wright, an author of best-selling inspirational novels who had worked for Frontiers of Freedom, a conservative policy group.
In his three years at the institute, Mr. Wright said in an interview, he was often approached by public relations consultants pitching projects for clients. Typical, he said, were overtures from two consultants who wanted him to advocate for opposing positions on the regulation of ''payday'' loans, widely criticized for usurious terms that hurt low-income borrowers.
''A P.R. firm in D.C. offered me a ton of money to take the wrong side of that issue,'' he said. ''I did end up taking some corporate donations from the side of the issue I believed in -- that the industry had completely lost control and had to be reined in.''
One of his most visible stands was opposing net neutrality, a tenet of Internet policy criticized by broadband suppliers who want the right to charge for different levels of service. With the rise of the Tea Party movement in 2009, the institute, by then under Mr. Langer, helped inject the issue into the national dialogue, and soon signs equating net neutrality with government oppression became a staple at Tea Party rallies.
Mr. Langer had arrived the previous year from the National Federation of Independent Business, a small-business lobbying group. An enthusiastic, talkative man of 40 who dabbles in Republican politics in Maryland, he quickly saw potential in the Tea Party phenomenon. Working with FreedomWorks and Americans for Prosperity, the institute co-sponsored early Tea Party events in Washington and published a guide called ''How to Brew a Tea Party.''
Mr. Langer can seem disarmingly candid when discussing his work. In a recent interview, he explained how the institute pitched its services to opponents of the Obama health care plan, resulting in a $1 million advertising blitz.
''A donor gave us some money, and we went out on the ground in five states in the space of like six weeks,'' he said.
He would not identify any donors, and, as a nonprofit ''social welfare'' organization, the institute does not have to release such information. Because the institute is a tax-exempt group, its I.R.S. filings are supposed to be publicly available, but Mr. Langer said returns for the last couple of years were being amended and refiled. The last available filing showed it took in $92,500 in 2007 -- a fraction of what it has spent since on several major campaigns.
He said he had sometimes chosen issues suggested by colleagues from an earlier job, at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a free-market group heavily financed by business interests. The two institutes are involved in a campaign advocating a realignment of NASA's budget that would benefit commercial spaceflight entrepreneurs. The Institute of Liberty's contribution was a Web page called ''No Space Pork!''
Last year, the two groups also supported the effort by the agribusiness giant Monsanto to ease federal restrictions on its pesticide-resistant alfalfa. (In February, regulators agreed to do so.) Mr. Langer said he decided ''to try out our grass-roots method on that, and frame it as a dairy issue and access to affordable food.''
He got a column published in July in the Capitol Hill newspaper Roll Call, talking up Monsanto's product and asking readers to consider the value of bioengineered foods as they ''stroll down the aisle of the supermarket.'' The institute's Web site urged members to speak up, and Mr. Langer filed a petition with the Department of Agriculture.
But a close look at that petition illustrates how a ''grass-roots'' campaign may be something else entirely. He submitted 8,052 comments he said were collected by telephone. The comments, under different names, were identical and began: ''I was recently contacted by the Institute for Liberty and asked if I would be willing to lend my voice in support of moving these types of alfalfa to nonregulated status.'' The New York Times examined a random sample of 50 names, and found that three of the people were dead when the comments were submitted. Others said they had no idea their names had been used.
''I vaguely remember responding to a survey as to whether or not the affordability of food for my family was important to me,'' said Romeyn Jenkins of Iowa. ''But that is far different than setting myself up as an authority on specific genetically engineered crops and authorizing my name for submission on form letters.''
Told of these findings, Mr. Langer said, ''That's news to me,'' and attributed them to errors by a consultant he retained to solicit the petitions, whom he would not identify. ''Naturally,'' he said, ''the law of averages dictates that not everything will be perfect, and I will contact the vendor about that.''
Taking On Tariffs
Mr. Langer's latest initiative, defending Asian paper imports, is the central theme of his project called the Consumers Alliance for Global Prosperity, started with Frontiers of Freedom.
Domestic paper companies and their employee unions, complaining that China and Indonesia were subsidizing exported paper products, petitioned federal trade officials several years ago to slap tariffs on them. The main target, Asia Pulp & Paper, is also under attack for its logging practices; several big retailers have stopped selling its paper.
Last year, with a tariff decision looming, Asia Pulp & Paper went on the offensive. It deployed lobbyists and retained Mr. Oxley, the Australian who runs a Washington-based policy group, World Growth International, which has long defended commercial forestry and palm oil interests in Southeast Asia.
World Growth issued a report last June, ''Green Protectionism,'' asserting that groups like Greenpeace colluded with American labor unions and paper manufacturers to hobble Asian paper imports. In September, Asia Pulp & Paper released an Oxley review criticizing a Greenpeace study of the company's logging practices.
Three days later, Mr. Langer came out with his own detailed report that hewed to these same themes, and put up a Web site, pulpwars.com, to promote it. Titled ''Empires of Collusion,'' it reads like a brief for Asia Pulp & Paper and has been followed by reports on subjects like palm oil and American paper industry subsidies that are important to Asia Pulp & Paper and its parent company, Sinar Mas. He has worked these issues into podcasts, Facebook postings and opinion columns, often with a folksy Tea Party-friendly twist.
''More regulation and U.S. corporate welfare do not benefit American consumers, Asian companies or those in Southeast Asia who desperately need employment,'' he said.
Although some of his material cites Asia Pulp & Paper, Mr. Langer insists that he had not even heard of the company when he was setting up Consumers Alliance last August to call attention to free trade and affordability of products. He decided to do its first campaign on paper imports, he said, because the tariffs -- which were approved in October -- could raise textbook prices. ''Paper came up because it was the beginning of the school year,'' he said, adding that no one brought him the idea.
Internet domain records, however, show that pulpwars.com was created shortly before the Consumers Alliance Web site in mid-August, suggesting the paper issue was driving the project from the start. And there are intriguing links between Mr. Langer's operation and Mr. Oxley's.
World Growth and Consumers Alliance share an e-mail marketing service. And an executive at the DCI Group, a Washington corporate affairs firm that helped Mr. Oxley set up World Growth and has continued to provide services to it, is married to Mr. Langer's consultant on the Consumers Alliance project.
The DCI executive, Trice Whitefield, has done communications work on forestry and climate change issues for World Growth. Her husband, Bret Jacobson, said he did ''some Web design and initial communications efforts'' for Consumers Alliance but would not talk about how he got the assignment. Neither would Ms. Whitefield, who said only that her husband ''does his own thing and I do mine.''
Mr. Oxley, who has previously worked with the Competitive Enterprise Institute, Frontiers of Freedom and other conservative groups in Washington, denied collaborating with Mr. Langer. He attributed any similarities between his work and the institute's to the small number of organizations promoting the issue.
While acknowledging that he had represented Asia Pulp & Paper, he said he did not know if the company was financing the Consumers Alliance, but added, ''It's not unusual that economic interests who are challenged would take action in some way.''
As for Asia Pulp & Paper, one of its executives seemed to suggest it was lending a hand somehow. Speaking last October to Mongabay.com, a Web site focused on forests and conservation, Ian Lifshitz said his company would continue to ''support groups like the Consumer Alliance for Global Prosperity'' that respect the economic rights of developing nations.
Asked about that recently, Mr. Lifshitz, who is the sustainability and public outreach manager for the North American division, backtracked, saying, ''We do not directly or indirectly fund'' Consumers Alliance.
''What I was getting at,'' he said, ''is that we're just like-minded.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Andrew Langer, president of the Institute for Liberty, in a video on the Consumer Prosperity channel on YouTube, compared a United States tariff on Asian paper to Britain's colonial trade policies. (A16) GRAPHICS: A Hidden Lobby For Indonesian Paper? Citing populist American values, the Institute for Liberty, a Tea Party group, has pushed an agenda nearly identical to that of Asia Pulp & Paper, a foreign corporation fighting American critics and tariffs on its products. The institute says it is not working with the company, but an examination by The New York Times found ties between the two. (GRAPHICS BY MIKE McINTIRE, ALICIA DeSANTIS AND KEVIN QUEALY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PAPER MILLS (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PAPER & PACKAGING (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); PAPER MFG (71%); PETITIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (68%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (67%); MARRIAGE (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (61%)

COMPANY: ASIA PULP & PAPER CO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); INDONESIA (96%); ASIA (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



720 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: An Annual Rite, School Layoff Notices Seem More Dire

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
School authorities across the nation are warning thousands of teachers that they could lose their jobs in June, raising the possibility that America's public schools may see the most extensive layoffs of their teaching staffs in decades.
Though many of the warnings may not be acted upon -- school systems, their budget outlook unclear, routinely overstate likely layoffs at this time of year -- when layoffs do occur, they cause a chaotic annual reshuffling of staff members. Thousands of teachers are forced to change schools, grades or subjects, creating chronic instability that educators call ''teacher churn.''
''Most districts have not done layoffs for years, so they have no idea how bad this is going to be when it hits,'' said Timothy Daly, president of the New Teacher Project, a nonprofit group that has studied the effects of teacher layoffs. 
Much of the public debate over teacher layoffs has concerned how they are decided, with sharp divisions between politicians and union leaders over the seniority-based layoff methods stipulated in union contracts.
Many argue that the rules rob schools of the talented young teachers who are the first to be let go. Union officials say that without such protections, more senior teachers would be let go first to save money.
But school superintendents say the consequences of sweeping layoffs are often overlooked in the policy debate. Layoffs, they say, hurt school cohesion, undermine student achievement and rupture ties with parents.
''I'm getting nauseous just remembering,'' said Barbara Byrd-Bennett, who as the Cleveland superintendent in the last decade had to make draconian teacher cuts. ''The result was devastating for our classrooms.''
School districts from Rhode Island to California have begun notifying teachers of layoffs. State laws or union contracts require notifications in the spring to teachers whose contracts might not be renewed.
In New York, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg painted a worst-case outcome of 4,675 teacher layoffs last month. But the city may avoid many of those.
School finance experts say widespread teacher layoffs are more likely this year. The billions that Congress approved in 2009 and 2010 to forestall school layoffs is mostly spent. And, because their personal retirement accounts have dwindled during the recession, older teachers are delaying retirement, which means more layoffs would be needed to close budget gaps, said Marguerite Roza, a researcher at the University of Washington.
''It's logical to anticipate much larger layoffs this year,'' Dr. Roza said.
Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, said criticism by politicians of seniority-based layoffs obscured that ''this magnitude of cuts will hurt children, whether you lay off senior people or junior people.''
Arun Ramanathan, a former senior administrator in San Diego, said seniority-based layoff policies created more turmoil than was publicly recognized. ''The public imagines that districts just lay off teachers starting at the bottom of a long seniority list,'' Mr. Ramanathan said.
But the process is more complex in many districts, he said, partly because layoff quotas are first allocated to each of a district's schools, and teachers laid off from one school have the right to take the job of junior educators at other schools, if they are certified to teach that subject.
''As a result, the harm of a single layoff can be multiplied, as a cascading process of 'bumping' begins,'' said a February study by Education Trust-West, a nonprofit group, that was critical of California's seniority-based layoff policies. Mr. Ramanathan was one of its authors.
''The system is quite insane,'' he said.
Quyen Tran knows this turmoil well. A 30-year-old teacher in the New Haven Unified School District south of San Francisco, Ms. Tran has been pink-slipped in the spring four of the five years she has taught, but called back to teach every year. The layoffs and recalls have repeatedly forced her to refocus. She has taught five subjects and grade levels in three schools.
At the end of each of her first two years, Ms. Tran was bumped from her classroom by more senior teachers. Since getting tenure in her third year, she has twice bumped junior teachers from their classrooms. She received her fourth pink slip this month, and has attended California Teachers Association rallies to protest the layoffs.
Rick LaPlante, a spokesman for her district, said Ms. Tran's career upheaval was ''not common but not rare.''
''It's chaos,'' Mr. LaPlante said of California's system of annual layoffs. ''Maybe unfortunate is the best word. Or terrible.''
Those adjectives also describe the disruption layoffs caused in Minneapolis in the mid-2000s, according to a report by the New Teacher Project, which worked with the district.
As enrollments dropped from 2005 to 2009, Minneapolis schools shed 15 percent of their teachers, the report says. But each year half the teachers laid off in the spring were rehired in the fall. Half of those rehired returned to teach in a different school.
William Green, who was the Minneapolis superintendent from 2006 through last year, said parents felt victimized.
''Parents are scared to death when they send kids to school, and teachers become the face of the system for parents,'' Dr. Green said. ''We hurt relations with a lot of parents by laying off their child's teacher.''
In Cleveland, Dr. Byrd-Bennett presided over even more severe teacher layoffs. During her seven-year tenure, she created dozens of theme schools, and student achievement began rising.
But in the years after the layoffs, achievement leveled off, and it eventually dropped. In 2009, school authorities invited the Council of the Great City Schools, a nonprofit group that represents urban districts, to visit Cleveland to diagnose problems.
The council's report concluded that teacher layoffs, carried out by seniority, had stripped Cleveland's specialty schools of key teachers. A Spanish-English immersion school had lost its dual language teachers; a school for gifted children had lost teachers who had special training to work with those students.
''The churn caused by layoffs can be extremely disruptive and hurt student achievement,'' said Michael Casserly, the council's executive director. ''And conditions are ripe for disruptions to be dramatic this year.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Quyen Tran, a teacher in California, knows a thing or two about pink slips. She has gotten four of them in the five years she has taught, most recently this month. She has never been laid off but has had to change jobs repeatedly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (95%); LAYOFFS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (79%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (79%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (79%); CHILDREN (79%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (79%); EDUCATION FUNDING (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); APPROVALS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



721 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Abuse in Group Homes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Shame of New York's Group Homes'' (editorial, March 26):
As an advocate for people with developmental disabilities and those who help them, I was distressed to learn of the abuse of this vulnerable population by cruel caregivers who violated their position of trust. But we must keep in mind that the overwhelming majority of caregivers in New York State provide compassionate care to the people with developmental disabilities they serve. So rather than just focusing on bringing ''better employees'' into the caregiving profession, let's also make today's caregivers better. 
Researchers and health care practitioners have documented that there is often a link between caregiver stress and the abuse of the vulnerable people they care for. But an issue even more critical for people in the caring professions is when they experience ''compassion fatigue.'' Too often, caregivers who work with vulnerable populations are not prepared for the toll that caregiving exacts on them.
Moreover, they are likely to feel guilty about needing ''time out'' -- no matter how temporary -- from the day-to-day demands of caregiving, even when they are stressed or traumatized by outside demands from families, communities, second jobs or personal health issues.
Therefore, to reduce the risk of abuse and improve the quality of care for people with developmental disabilities, caregivers must be trained to detect the first signs of caregiver compassion fatigue and take proactive steps to address this issue, before there is a problem.
THOMAS M. CASSIDY Stony Brook, N.Y., March 28, 2011
The writer, an economist, is a clinical associate professor in the School of Social Welfare at Stony Brook University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



722 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Energy; ENERGY: A SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Tucking Carbon Into the Ground

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
IF carbon is going to be kept out of the atmosphere, a lot of it is probably going to have to be injected back into the ground from which it was mined as coal or extracted as oil or gas.
Not even the most ardent optimist about alternative energy would suggest that fossil fuels are going away soon. So carbon capture and sequestration -- C.C.S. in environmental shorthand -- is essential to a national energy policy. But almost all the discussion has been on the C.C. and not much on the S.
Yet there are signs of progress. The first large-scale sequestration project in North America, on the banks of the Ohio River in New Haven, W.Va., is going to complete its mission soon, with an unexpected bit of good news.
In one kind of rock, at least, carbon dioxide seems to slip into the small open spaces more easily than projected, meaning the job may be easier than thought. And more than 500 miles to the west, near Meredosia, Ill., a bigger project to try injecting carbon into a more common kind of rock is making progress toward start-up. 
''We've been very encouraged,'' said Gary O. Spitznogle, the manager of carbon capture and sequestration engineering at American Electric Power, a company that produces electricity in 11 states, mostly by burning coal. In late 2009, it began capturing carbon dioxide from a portion of the flue gases at its Mountaineer coal plant in New Haven.
With almost every kind of rock into which carbon dioxide could be pushed, the object is to let the carbon dioxide displace the water there -- usually water with no economic value, because it is salty. The project near Meredosia will inject carbon dioxide into sandstone, a porous formation found under much of the Midwest and other parts of North America. Sandstone underlies Mountaineer, too, and its pores are usually too small to be seen by the naked eye. But another layer under Mountaineer is a different kind of rock, dolomite, which has pores more like the voids in a Swiss cheese. These are ''vugular porosities,'' known as vugs.
In the dolomite, the carbon dioxide turned out to have interesting properties, according to Mr. Spitznogle. It is more slippery than the saline water it displaces, he said, and, as a result, as more and more carbon dioxide was pumped in, and the boundary between the carbon dioxide and the saline got larger, the flow became easier.
''The system is designed to go as high as 2,800 pounds per square inch, but we haven't needed to go anywhere near that pressure,'' he said. In fact, carbon dioxide has been oozing in at a pressure of 1,500 to 1,800 pounds a square inch.
Because each additional pound of pressure means more electric power to do the work, lower pressure means sequestration will be less expensive. (The bulk of the energy consumption, though, is in the separation phase.)
Still, the Mountaineer test is merely a pilot. The separation plant is working from a slice of less than one-sixtieth of the plant's flue gases, 20 megawatts out of a 1,300-megawatt output. The next phase is a 235-megawatt unit, he said; if carbon regulation requires it, the company would build modules of that size near its plants. Injection might then be at several wells, each going to a different depth.
The Meredosia project will use an entirely different method to separate the carbon dioxide. In February, the project sponsors said they had identified an area in Morgan County, Ill., for sequestration, in the Mount Simon Sandstone, a geologic structure that stretches under much of the Midwest. At the site in question, it is about 850 feet thick.
''The amount of pore space we'll consume over 30 years would be on order of less than 1 percent to a few percent,'' said Kenneth K. Humphreys, chief executive of the FutureGen Alliance, a consortium of companies that will build and operate the project. One problem for FutureGen is that land ownership in the area is broken up among many holders, and at the moment, the pore space in the rock is considered the property of the surface owner. Mr. Humphreys said he did not know how much underground area the project would need -- it might fit in 2,500 acres or might need 10,000, he said.
FutureGen's carbon dioxide flow will be about 10 times larger than Mountaineer's. Mountaineer, which was supposed to run for up to five years, is likely to close sooner, because the companies involved have learned what they need to. The Meredosia plant is supposed to run for 30 years.
Many national and international environmental organizations favor carbon sequestration, although they fret over the details. There has been local opposition, in some places, which might be described as ''not under my backyard.'' The FutureGen sponsors say they picked their Illinois location partly because of local support.
And various parts of the legal framework for carbon sequestration are falling into place. In November 2010, Lisa P. Jackson, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, gave final approval to a rule that had been in preparation for three years, creating a new class of wells for injection of carbon dioxide. The rule covers how operators must study the underlying geology, build the well, run it, test the underground flow, respond in an emergency and plug the well when they are done.
A main focus of the rule is protecting drinking water. While carbon dioxide itself is not toxic -- in fact, humans emit it every time they exhale -- it does change the acidity of water into which it is injected. That can result in underground water acting on and dissolving naturally occurring toxic materials deep underground.
So the E.P.A. does not allow carbon dioxide to be injected into underground water supplies that meet the drinking water standard. Instead, it will be injected into saline aquifers, water that is too salty for drinking or irrigation use.
The E.P.A. already has rules covering injection of carbon dioxide into old oil fields, where it is used to force oil to the surface. The new rule will cover those fields as they are ''transitioned'' into use as carbon storage sites.
One part of the legal framework remains largely unsettled, though. Private companies say that they will take responsibility -- and accept the liability -- for carbon dioxide they put in the ground for as long as they inject it, and perhaps for decades afterward. In addition, at the Illinois project, the plan is to buy commercial insurance and to set up a trust fund to handle future problems.
FutureGen said it would take responsibility for any damages while it was injecting, and for the longer term was setting aside money in a trust fund to pay for future problems, if there are any. And it will be buying commercial insurance, it said.
That makes Illinois itself the fourth line of defense, said Mr. Humphreys. But companies will not accept the liability forever, he said, and it was not a good idea for them to agree to do so, because the carbon dioxide will outlive the corporate entities.
''The one thing we can pretty well guarantee is that the United States of America, and the State of Illinois, are all going to be around in 100 years,'' he said. ''You need someone to be the ultimate caretaker.''
But getting legislatures to agree is a state-by-state process.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: INJECTING GAS: A pumping station, right, at American Electric Power's Mountaineer plant in New Haven, W.Va. Above, wellheads check the temperature and pressure of the sequestered gas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN RIDELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (90%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); COAL MINING (77%); COAL INDUSTRY (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (58%)

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



723 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Energy; ENERGY: A SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Trading Pumps for Plugs: We Aren't There Yet

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.

 BODY:
KEVIN WALSH and his wife, Jeri Countryman, are young professionals in San Francisco with jobs requiring a fair amount of commuting. By himself, Mr. Walsh, a process engineer for a large international pharmaceutical company in San Carlos, Calif., logs a total of 43 miles each day.
With pump prices in the area creeping over $4 a gallon, the family was spending $200 or so a month on gasoline.
At the beginning of March, however, Mr. Walsh joined a tiny revolution, cutting the connection between his daily commute and foreign oil when he bought what is arguably the first plug-in electric car aimed at capturing the middle-American market: a Nissan Leaf.
''When available and practical, we make decisions to cut back on nonsustainable usage,'' Mr. Walsh, 38, said about his motives. 
President Obama made it a campaign pledge, and later a goal of his administration, to put one million electric vehicles on the highways by 2015 and set aside more than $2 billion in the 2009 economic stimulus package for advanced battery and electric car research to help make it happen.
But the promise of an electric car revolution in the United States has come and gone before, and the question is where Mr. Walsh ends and mainstream America begins.
For electric car enthusiasts, the good news is that the right combination of technology and policy is now in place to ensure that plug-in cars are almost certainly here to stay -- in some form. Battery range is longer, and government incentives are nudging consumers and industry to expand the market beyond the luxury niche it has occupied.
General Motors has just come out with the Chevrolet Volt, a gas-electric plug-in hybrid, and other consumer models, including the Ford Focus Electric and Toyota Prius plug-in, are coming.
''Things have really turned a corner,'' said Phyllis Cuttino, the director of the Pew Environment Group's Clean Energy Program. ''There's just a whole broad segment of the population who now see how electric cars can work for them.''
What's a little less clear, though, is just how quickly all this will unfold, and analysts seem to disagree over what it will take for electric cars to command any sizable portion of the market.
Part of the problem, said Robert Bryce, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute's Center for Energy Policy and the Environment, is that even at $4 a gallon, the price of oil still is not high enough to nudge mainstream Americans beyond the gasoline-fueled engines they know and love.
''The history of the electric car is the history of failure tailgating failure,'' Mr. Bryce said. ''Maybe this time it will be different, but part of the problem is that the energy density of gasoline is very nearly miraculous.''
James Schlesinger, the former Energy Department secretary, put it more bluntly to the Web site Politico last month: ''Anybody who's talking about energy independence is smoking pot,'' he said. ''There's no way we're going to get to energy independence as long as we depend on the internal combustion engine.''
Of course, early adopters with disposable income don't necessarily have to.
''I drove past the gas station the other day and gasoline was $4.19 a gallon,'' Mr. Walsh said. ''My round-trip commute cost me less than a dollar in electricity that I produced on my own roof,'' he said, referring to the photovoltaic array he installed at his home four years ago.
That kind of enthusiasm is what's needed to lure the first wave, but electric cars like the Leaf still face hurdles to wider adoption, including a lack of public charging stations, the time it takes to charge (seven hours in most cases) and range limitations.
Faster-charging technologies are in the works, and a number of companies, including General Electric, Better Place and Coulomb Technologies, are vying to grab parts of the charging station market. As for range, the Leaf's battery permits a nominal driving distance of 100 miles on a full charge, though in actual traffic conditions that is likely to look something more like 60 or 70 miles.
For someone like Mr. Walsh, the Leaf works well. For other consumers, that might seem tenuous.
Sam Jaffe, an analyst with the market research firm IDC Energy Insights, said the other challenge for electric cars remains the upfront cost, which still exceeds comparably built conventional cars. A Leaf, for example, will be priced at about $33,600, Mr. Jaffe said, compared with Nissan's Versa model with roughly the same frame at about $15,000.
A federal tax credit for an electric car will shave $7,500 off the difference. But even if an electric car costs just pennies to operate, Mr. Jaffe said that's not enough for many buyers.
''What most people don't grasp is that in terms of operational costs -- what it costs you to drive the car around -- electric cars are advantageous today. You come out on top today. But people don't buy cars based on operating costs. They buy based on upfront costs.''
Of course, it can take years before the lower operational cost makes up for the higher upfront cost of the Leaf. It would take Mr. Walsh, for example, almost five years to recoup the price difference between the Versa and Leaf.
So what's the market outlook?
In January 2010, the market research firm IHS Global Insight declared that ''plugged-in vehicles'' -- a category that includes plug-in hybrids and fully electric vehicles -- would make up 20 percent of the global market for light vehicles by the end of the decade. In November, Bloomberg New Energy Finance speculated that sales of such cars could hit 1.6 million, or 9 percent of the American market, by 2020 and perhaps 4 million, or 22 percent of the market, by 2030.
That would seem roughly in line with Mr. Obama's goal, but Mr. Jaffe thinks that's a bit unrealistic. He predicted that even by the end of 2011, only about 74,000 electric vehicles would be on the nation's highways, including conversions and street-legal golf carts. That would be out of a total of 250 million cars and trucks, or about 135 million traditional passenger cars, according to the latest government figures.
Mr. Jaffe estimates the number of electric vehicles will hit 885,000 by 2015. It's a solid, if modest number, and by then, most of the early adopters will have, well, adopted.
At that point, it will be up to everyone else. And at that pace of penetration, electric utilities should have enough time to work out systems for managing new demands on the grid. This will probably include lower off-peak prices, Mr. Jaffe said, to encourage electric car owners to charge their cars at night, when overall loads on the system are lighter.
For Mr. Walsh, such compromises ought to be taken in stride.
''While many people will argue about pollution and global warming, one way to look at it that I think many can agree on is that continuing to use fossil fuels and create air pollution is clearly not helping the environment,'' he said, ''so why not make a better choice when it is available?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GAS INDEPENDENCE: Kevin Walsh and his wife, Jeri Countryman, of San Francisco plugging their new Nissan Leaf electric vehicle into the charging station in their garage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); CHEMICAL ENGINEERING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); HYBRID VEHICLES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (66%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (61%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



724 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOU'RE THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: How Companies Get Into Trouble

BYLINE: By BARBARA TAYLOR

 BODY:
Most of us have an image of the turnaround guy. For some, the term can conjure up images of an unfeeling taskmaster, exemplified by Albert Dunlap, known as Chainsaw Al, who applied his famously ruthless methods to companies like Scott Paper and Sunbeam in the 1980s. Recently, however, I had the good fortune to meet not one but two men who put to rest my stereotype of the turnaround guy as Rambo in pinstripes.
John Newman recently retired from turnaround work after 15 successful engagements. His efforts took him across the country, where his clients ranged from closely held businesses to some of the largest agricultural cooperatives in the United States. Lynn Hartrick has been helping midmarket business owners with turnarounds, transitions and liquidity events for 14 years. Both men have many of the same outward qualities, including impeccable listening skills and a genuine desire to fix broken companies. I asked them about the work they do and what advice they have for small-business owners. 
Do you see common mistakes or patterns that lead to the need for a turnaround?
''The troubled company pattern looks like this,'' Mr. Newman wrote in a prescient 1999 article Good Times Make You Stupid. ''When the company is starting out, the owner lives frugally, often taking no salary for the first few years. Then they hit some good times. The owner buys an expensive car, joins
the country club, buys a fancy house ... then the luxuries become necessities.'' In this scenario, the company's survival becomes largely dependent on the owner's personal financial flexibility. According to Mr. Newman, the edge of bankruptcy is often the point at which the owner accepts that change is necessary.
Mr. Hartrick offered a caveat. ''It would be unfair to generalize that all turnaround situations are the result of owner mistakes,'' he said, citing market shifts and economic factors as other causes. ''When it is owner-driven, it is oftentimes due to the business 'getting away' from the owner. He has taken his eye off what made the business successful in the first place or failed to keep pace with the change around him.''
Mr. Newman pointed to denial -- or what he likes to call ''ostrich management'' -- as another common denominator leading up to many turnaround scenarios. ''Turnarounds require painful decisions,'' Mr. Newman explained. ''It is human nature, although not necessarily good leadership, to try to avoid such actions.''
Both men also included lack of planning and incomplete reporting as hallmarks of a business in a downward spiral -- ''when owners fail to track and use metrics for performance and prediction, don't set priorities or lose connections with customers and employees, then trouble is not far off,'' Mr. Hartrick said.
(For a detailed account of a business that faced these kinds of issues, see a recent case study and follow-up post describing the turnaround of First Quality Music.)
You ask people to make difficult decisions. How do you get them to act on your advice?
''While some owners are reluctant, reality usually rules the day,'' said Mr. Hartrick, citing pressures like dwindling cash, threats from bankers and vendors shutting off deliveries. ''Few businesses get into trouble over night. There is usually a history of no planning, poor management, failure to recognize the need to make tough decisions and a reluctance to communicate and seek collaborative support from employees, creditors and bankers.''
Mr. Newman takes the time to hear that history. ''I spend most of my time listening, to learn and develop trust,'' he said. ''When I talk, I speak the truth about the limited options.'' Two likely options, he said, are selling a division or otherwise downsizing the business, and yes, sometimes, letting go of employees -- even good ones and especially at the top.
In a 2005 article, Mr. Newman described a particularly turbulent day of meetings between bankers and top executives at a client company. At the end of the day the chief executive stepped down voluntarily, then stayed with the company to train his successor. The turnaround was successful and the incoming chief executive was considered a hero. ''But to me,'' said Newman, ''the departing C.E.O. was equally a hero in the way he conducted himself.''
How does an owner decide whether to sell the business -- or to try to turn it around?
''Turnarounds require a burst of energy from top leadership,'' Mr. Newman said. ''If the owner is already burned out, he would do well do sell it.'' Some owners seek an alternative strategy by taking a back seat and hiring a manager, although he added that this method rarely works.
''There is a decision point, and I think it varies in every case,'' Mr Hartrick said. ''Is the business salvageable? Is there sufficient capital and time to effect a turnaround? Does the owner have the talent and energy to slug through what is required?''
If good times make you stupid, I asked Mr. Newman, what do bad times do? ''Folks who go through a turnaround learn lessons that stay with them for a long time,'' he said. ''I've seen companies make major changes specifically because of the depth of the crisis. The crisis became an ally.''
Barbara Taylor is co-owner of a business brokerage, Synergy Business Services, in Bentonville, Ark. Here is her guide to selling a business.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); AGRICULTURE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



725 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: G.E.'s Response on Taxes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''At G.E. on Tax Day, Billions of Reasons to Smile'' (''But Nobody Pays That'' series, front page, March 25): 
It was significant losses at GE Capital in the financial crisis, not ''tax avoidance'' strategies, that reduced General Electric's 2010 overall tax rate below historic levels.
Without these financial crisis losses at GE Capital, G.E.'s tax rate would have been near the average of other multinational corporations. Our tax rate will return to more normal levels this year as GE Capital recovers from the financial crisis. In short, when you lose money, you don't pay taxes, and that's what happened at GE Capital.
The Times points out that G.E.'s job numbers in the United States are down over the past decade, but does not provide the context: G.E.'s employment in the United States has increased in this period, apart from the sale of businesses. Those jobs weren't eliminated; they moved to other companies.
GARY SHEFFER V.P., Communications and Public Affairs General Electric Fairfield, Conn., March 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (95%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (95%); GEC (LSE) (95%); GE (SWX) (95%); GE (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



726 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: A Safe Walk In the Dark

BYLINE: By CINTRA WILSON

 BODY:
I STUMBLED into a United Nude store for the first time a couple of weeks ago in Miami. I was curious, because I was told that the creative director of the store was the Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas. This turned out to be completely specious.
United Nude's creative director is the Dutch architect Rem D. Koolhaas, who is not to be confused with his esteemed uncle, the Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas, but there is confusion, to the obvious advantage of Rem D. His partner in United Nude is Galahad Clark, a member of the family that has controlled the Clarks shoe empire for seven generations. So it is safe to say that nepotism has played some role in the formation of United Nude. But the Koolhaas name, however misleading, got me in the door. 
Once inside, a pair of black elastic X Wedge sandals managed to sweet-talk their way onto my feet. I liked where they sat on the spectrum of summer shoes: tall enough to keep your naked feet elevated above filthy New York sidewalks and sexy, but with a bit of growl and bite to them -- something Tank Girl might wear to a Brooklyn tailgate party. They were relatively comfortable and not blister-inducing, so I was hooked for $215 and curious enough about United Nude to swing by the store on Bond Street once back in New York.
The store describes itself as ''a dark-shop concept'' -- i.e., it's bloody dark in there. On the floor is what it calls a ''Lo Res'' sculpture: a shiny black jewel-faceted art thing that looks sort of like a fetal Lamborghini. The only illuminated area is its trademarked Wall of Light, a jumpy, computer-controlled LED edifice that throbs discothequishly in ever-changing colors and serves as a backlight behind the open cubbyholes showcasing the shoes. The colors dramatically undulate to the soundtrack, which bounces from Lady Gaga to Edith Piaf, so if you need to know what colors the shoes actually are, you basically need to wait for a lull in the rhythm section.
And the shoes are colorful. A good percentage of them are constructed of nifty, sturdy elastics, woven (I was told by a salesman) at the company's textile factory in China. These are striped in glamorously clashing, saturated designer colors -- neon pinks on midnight blues on egg-yolk yellows on tree-frog greens -- and a whole Pantone wheel of kicky hues in combinations redolent of summer-camp lanyards or Pendleton Navajo blankets. The thicker elastics are grooved, leafy and wide enough to be folded over a bootie form (in three different heel heights, from grandma to mum to little nymphet), from which the ankle seems to emerge organically like the stem of a skunk cabbage. (A flat rainbow bootie with a thin sneaker sole is $175.)
There are rubberized pastel and neutral-colored flats (most around $70) and heels of an injection-molded chemical substance that the store calls ''vegetan'' leather. These, for the most part, look like what happens when a chubby little pair of Crocs is picked up at a nightclub and ends up passed out in a hotel sauna.
The United Nude stores seem to go out of their way to employ attractive 20-something scamps who really can't be bothered by such annoyances as actual customers. The art-school imp on Bond Street was barely aware of anything but her own intricate wonderfulness until I finally walked up to the register with a two-tone elastic macrame pump in my hand ($235) and asked for a pair to try on.
''I think that one's probably your size,'' she said, with an economy of interest. ''Try that one on and see if it fits, and then if you want, I'll go get you the other one.''
She had mastered the soft sell, anyway.
In one of the essays in the seminal book ''S, M, L, XL,'' the original Rem Koolhaas declared that, among other things, progress, identity and the city were no more. ''Relief ... it's over. That is the story of the city. The city is no longer. We can leave the theatre now.''
It may sometimes seem that my critical approach to retail fashion has been to go in like Laurence Olivier in ''Marathon Man'' with a tray of power tools intent on performing involuntary dental surgery on designers while dementedly screaming, ''Is it safe?!''
But I have been looking for generosity of vision. I ask clothes questions, like: Who are you for? What do you say about the person who wears you? Are you functional? Have you discovered an empowering, liberating new silhouette -- like Christian Dior and Yves Saint Laurent so nobly did in their days -- that calls forth strengths never before realized in the feminine character? Or are you bombing women back to the Goldwater era? Does this line help my life or hinder it? In short: Is it safe!?
United Nude: Yeah, it's safe. It's pretty thin gruel. Nothing groundbreaking in the way of architecture theory, certainly, but there are decent examples of footwear, if you like that kind of thing.
This will be my last dispatch as your Critical Shopper. This column has been a singular joy and privilege to write, and I will miss your readership. Whenever you find the mate to your perfect bondage-boot hidden under one of the couches at Barneys on sale day, I will be with you in spirit.
Until then, may you be United in Nudity -- with or without Rem D. Koolhaas.
United Nude
25 Bond Street (between Lafayette Street and the Bowery); (212) 420-6000.
WOOED Borrowing a bit heavily from the name and fame of his architect uncle, Rem Koolhaas, the architect Rem D. Koolhaas and his partner, Galahad Clark, present an interesting, if somewhat dilettante-ish, collection of footwear designs and pretensions.
RUDE If you're the type who is easily put off by an aloof sales staff, don't bother, but this is a fun place to go dip your toes in the pungent attitude. Part of the flora, if you will.
SCANTILY SHOED In the end, the footwear isn't bad for designery-looking chunks of molded plastic with big Chinese elastic straps all over them. And, like nudity, the price range covers just about everyone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (68%); TEXTILE MFG (60%); FABRIC MILLS (60%); TEXTILE MILLS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%); CHINA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



727 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DISASTER IN JAPAN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Countries Begin Radiation Checks on Ships That Have Visited Japan

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER and MATTHEW SALTMARSH; Reporting was contributed by Matthew Saltmarsh from Paris, Liz Gooch from Kuala Lumpur, Aubrey Belford from Jakarta, and Su-hyun Lee from Seoul. Xu Yan contributed research from Shanghai.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Shipping companies and airlines around the world, already nervous about rising fuel prices and the potential effect of an economic slowdown in Japan, now have another worry: intensified monitoring of ships and aircraft that have made recent stops in Japan.
As the concerns mount over radiation leaking from the crippled Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant in Japan, governments around the globe have announced various steps to monitor or screen ships and aircraft arriving from the quake-stricken country.
So far, few ships or planes appear to have registered unusual radiation levels or suffered holdups because of contamination fears.
Most shipping companies and airlines are less concerned about potential disruption caused by radiation screening at ports and airports around the world than they are about an array of other international problems, like the health of the Japanese economy, increasing fuel bills and piracy off the coast of Somalia. 
Still, the prospect of tighter checks and possible delays to port calls has made many operators nervous.
One particular, and so far apparently unique, case has fanned the shipping industry's fears. A Japanese cargo vessel was turned away last week by the innspection and quarantine bureau in the Chinese city of Xiamen, in the southeastern province of Fujian, after the authority said it had detected a ''radioactive anomaly'' on the vessel.
A representative of the ship's operator, Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, later told Reuters that the radiation level in question was 3.5 microsieverts an hour -- considered by experts to be far from harmful.
Adding to the confusion is the difficulty of getting a clear picture of exactly what approach the customs, security, health or port authorities in various countries and cities are taking, what radiation levels they consider abnormal and what steps officials might take if unusual levels are detected.
''We know some places are screening for radioactivity,'' said Arthur Bowring, managing director of the Hong Kong Shipowners Association, one of the largest associations of its kind.
''But often, we don't know what exactly they are screening, and what levels of radioactivity would be considered abnormal by the various officials.''
Many vessels travel long routes spanning multiple countries and ports, he said. ''How do you know that somewhere along a route, someone with a Geiger counter won't seriously delay or deviate a ship or cargo?''
Measures announced so far vary widely, and they often lack detail about what is considered safe or abnormal, industry experts say.
The United States Customs and Border Protection agency, for example, said last week that ''out of an abundance of caution,'' it had directed field personnel to specifically monitor maritime and air traffic from Japan.
The marine department in Hong Kong is ''keeping track'' of oceangoing vessels that have been within 30 kilometers, or about 18 miles, of Fukushima. None have arrived in the Hong Kong port so far, a spokesman for the department said. The city's customs and excise department is checking seaborne and airborne cargo originating from Japan.
The government authorities have also set up a health desk at the restricted area of Hong Kong International Airport for passengers arriving from Japan to conduct voluntary radioactivity screening.
In mainland China, which received about 20 percent of Japan's exports by value last year, the office of supervision, inspection and quarantine has asked local inspection authorities to intensify monitoring for nuclear and radioactive materials. Qingdao Port is inspecting every batch of cargo that has originated from or been anchored in Japan since March 11.
In Indonesia, the authorities plan to start screening some ships from Japan at the Jakarta port using wipe tests before the end of the week, said Reno Alamsyah, the director of nuclear emergency preparedness at the Indonesian nuclear regulatory agency.
''We will do random tests for some ships coming from Japan. That's all we can do at the moment,'' he said. Indonesia has no set guidelines on how high radiation would have to be for a ship to be turned away, and any decision to expand scanning or deny entry would be subject to future assessment, he said.
Radiation monitoring at Port Klang and Port Tanjung Pelepas, the busiest ports in Malaysia, predates the March 11 quake and nuclear crisis in Japan. The system was set up in part to prevent illicit trafficking of radioactive and nuclear materials.
Malaysia has not detected any radioactivity in containers arriving on ships from Japan, Hamrah Mohammad Ali, director of the enforcement division at the country's atomic energy licensing board, said in a statement.
The Dutch port of Rotterdam, one of the biggest in the world, has automatically checked containers for radiation since 2001. In response to Japan's disaster, it has set up teams to track containers that have been in Japan, or that might contain products originating from Japan, said Minco van Heezen, a spokesman for the port authority. It has also drawn up protocol and assigned staff and equipment to decontaminate containers as required, he said.
Ships take about one month to travel from Japan to Rotterdam, so any cargo that has left Japan since the March 11 earthquake has yet to reach the city.
Many shipping companies have chosen to minimize their presence in or near Japan as a precaution.
Hapag-Lloyd has been particularly cautious. The German company announced last week that it had stopped operating not just out of Sendai, which is near the epicenter of the quake, but also from Tokyo and Yokohama, which are more than 200 kilometers south of the damaged power plant. It is still operating services from Kobe and Nagoya.
Maersk Line of Denmark, the largest container group in the world, has suspended services to and from the ports of Sendai, Hachinohe and Onahama, but it continues to operate from other ports in the country. The group said that it had hired an agency to take sample radiation readings on containers being loaded in Tokyo and Yokohama. ''So far, no units have had excessive readings,'' it said.
But even such cautious approaches bear some risks for shipping companies.
If the radiation risks prove to be exaggerated and unjustified, ship owners who have chosen to avoid certain parts of Japan ''may find themselves in breach of charter for refusing orders to go to the relevant Japanese port, particularly if it is out of the 'immediate' risk zone,'' Ince & Company, an international law firm based in London, wrote in an assessment of the legal issues.
CMA CGM, the large Marseille-based container group, said in a statement this week that all of its vessels -- owned and chartered -- were still calling in Japan as scheduled, though it had adapted some routes to avoid restricted areas.
Airlines have also adjusted how they operate in Japan.
Qantas and Cathay Pacific both said this week that they were reducing flights to and from the country, citing weak passenger demand.
And at least three other major airlines have added a stop in Seoul for flights in and out of Japan because of staffing and supply concerns, Reuters reported.
British Airways, Air France-KLM and Lufthansa have moved crews to Seoul and are using catering services out of Incheon Airport in South Korea, adding a stop in the country for flights through Japan, a Seoul aviation administration official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE SHIPPING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); HARBORS & PORTS (74%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (74%); PORT AUTHORITIES (74%); SOMALI PIRACY (73%); MARITIME PIRACY (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); POWER PLANTS (56%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (56%)

COMPANY: MITSUI OSK LINES LTD (90%)

TICKER: 9104 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (90%); NAICS483113 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4491 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); SIC4424 DEEP SEA DOMESTIC TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (90%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); FUJIAN, CHINA (57%) JAPAN (97%); HONG KONG (94%); CHINA (92%); SOMALIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



728 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise on Job Gains, Extending S.&P. Rally

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks rose Wednesday, extending the biggest first-quarter rally in 13 years for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, as a report showing companies added more workers in March bolstered optimism about the economy. 
The drug maker Cephalon rose 28 percent for the biggest jump in the S.& P. 500 after Valeant Pharmaceuticals International offered to buy it. Visa climbed 2.8 percent on speculation that curbs on fees for debit cards will be delayed or modified. AT&T advanced 2.2 percent, the biggest increase in the Dow, to close at $30.71 after its chief executive said the company's acquisition of T-Mobile USA would increase network capacity and improve service.
The S.& P. 500 gained 8.82 points, or 0.67 percent, to close at 1,328.26 and is up 5.6 percent for the first quarter, which ends Thursday. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 71.60 points, or 0.58 percent, to close at 12,350.61 and has rallied 6.7 percent this year. The Nasdaq composite index was up 19.90 points, or 0.72 percent, to 2,776.79.
''Given the beginning of a strong cyclical recovery in the U.S. and a tougher environment in many of these other international markets, it seems to us like a good place for investors to be,'' said Connor Browne, an investment manager at Thornburg Investment Management in Santa Fe, N.M.
The S.& P. 500 is poised to complete a third consecutive quarterly advance and is headed for its biggest gain in the January through March period since 1998, when it surged 14 percent.
A report from ADP Employer Services showed companies hired 201,000 workers in March, the third time in four months that the nation added more than 200,000 jobs.
Economists predict that the Labor Department's employment report on Friday will show nonfarm payrolls rose by 190,000 in March and the unemployment rate held at 8.9 percent. The rate fell below 9 percent in February for the first time in 22 months.
''The expectation is that the U.S. economy is going to remain strong, and the equity markets are going to continue higher,'' said Michael James, managing director of equity trading at Wedbush Securities in Los Angeles.
Cephalon advanced 28 percent to $75.44 after Valeant, Canada's biggest drug maker, offered to buy it for $73 a share. The offer is valued at about $5.7 billion. Valeant rose 13 percent to $50.08. Forest Laboratories, another drug company, climbed 4.3 percent to $32.48.
Visa gained 2.8 percent to close at $74.23 after Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, said Tuesday that it would miss a April 21 deadline for a rule on debit card transaction fees. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 14/32, to 101 18/32, and the yield slipped to 3.43 percent from 3.49 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); ACQUISITIONS (71%); DEBIT CARDS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%)

COMPANY: VALEANT PHARMACEUTICALS INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (81%); ARDEA BIOSCIENCES INC (72%); T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (56%)

TICKER: VRX (TSX) (84%); VRX (NYSE) (84%); ADP (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (81%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (81%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (56%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



729 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: Top Libyan Official Defects; Rebels Are Retreating: Opposition Flees Towns Gained Last Week

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; C. J. Chivers reported from Brega and Ajdabiya, Libya, and David D. Kirkpatrick from Tripoli. David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington; Kareem Fahim from Benghazi, Libya; and Edward Wong from Beijing.

 BODY:
BREGA, Libya -- Libya's foreign minister defected to Britain on Wednesday, dealing a blow to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's government even as his forces pushed rebels into a panicked retreat and seized valuable towns they ceded just days ago under allied airstrikes.
The government advance appeared to return control of eastern Libya's most important oil regions to Colonel Qaddafi's forces, giving the isolated government, at least for the day, the east's most valuable economic prize. The rout also put into sharp relief the rebels' absence of discipline and tactical sense, confronting the United States with a conundrum: how to persuade Colonel Qaddafi to step down while supporting a rebel force that has been unable to hold on to military gains.
But the defection of Moussa Koussa, the foreign minister, showed that at least one longtime confidant seemed to be calculating that Colonel Qaddafi could not last. The news of Mr. Koussa's defection sent shockwaves through Tripoli on Wednesday night after it was announced by the British government. Mr. Koussa had been a pillar of his government since the early days of the revolution, and previously led the fearsome intelligence unit. 
Although American officials suspected him of responsibility for the bombing of Pan Am 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, Mr. Koussa also played a major role in turning over nuclear equipment and designs to the United States and in negotiating Libya back into the good graces of Western governments.
Presumably, he is now in a position to talk about the structure of Mr. Qaddafi's remaining forces and loyalists. What is unclear is whether his defection will lead to others. ''We think he could be the beginning of a stream of Libyans who think sticking with Qaddafi is a losing game,'' one senior American official said. ''But we don't know.''
Having abandoned Bin Jawwad and the oil port of Ras Lanuf on Tuesday, the rebels fled helter-skelter before government shelling from another oil town, Brega, and stopped for the night at the strategic city of Ajdabiya. As the rebels retreated in disarray, a senior rebel officer, Col. Ahmaed Omar Bani, pleaded for more weapons. He conceded that rebel fighters had ''dissolved like snow in the sand'' but framed the retreat as a ''tactical withdrawal.''
Vowing that ''Ajdabiya will not fall,'' he claimed that rebels were still fighting on the east and west sides of Brega, suggesting that pockets of resistance persisted even if the main force had fled.
He acknowledged that the rebels had no answer to the artillery pushing them back unless foreign governments provided parity in arms. ''The truth is the truth,'' he said. ''Even if it leaves a bad taste in your mouth.''
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, released a statement responding to a report of a presidential finding authorizing covert support for the rebels. It said: ''No decision has been made about providing arms to the opposition or to any group in Libya. We're not ruling it out or ruling it in.''
Whether more weapons or longer-range weapons would make a difference is an open question, however. Leadership and an appreciation for tactics were noticeably missing in the rebels' battle lines.
Faced with fire, the rebels seemed not to know how to use the relatively simple weapons they had in any coordinated fashion, and had almost no capacity to communicate with one another midfight. Throughout the spontaneous retreats on Wednesday, not a single two-way tactical radio was visible.
The rout put civilians to flight as well. By Wednesday evening, Ajdabiya's hospital patients were evacuated and a long stream of vehicles packed with forlorn residents filled the road north to Benghazi, the rebel capital.
Abdul Karim Baras, a young man with a crackling bullhorn, tried to buoy their spirits. ''God will rescue Libya from this moment!'' he shouted repeatedly as he stood on the highway median.
A few of the displaced -- many of whom made the same trek a week ago, before the allied airstrikes that reversed the loyalists' first push -- smiled or gave desultory victory signs as they passed through rebels' disoriented ranks.
There were few signs of renewed airstrikes. But an American military spokesman said coalition warplanes resumed bombing pro-Qaddafi units on Wednesday, without specifying where. ''The operation is continuing and will continue throughout the transition'' to NATO command, Capt. Clint Gebke said.
There were 102 airstrikes over a 24-hour period ending at 12 a.m. Eastern time, according to the United States Africa Command. The airstrikes did little to reverse the momentum of the ground battle, which shifted decisively in the early afternoon.
After a brief ground-to-ground rocket or artillery attack on the approaches to Brega, the rebels hastily abandoned their positions, fleeing pell-mell in perhaps 200 cars and trucks, heading east with horns honking and lights flashing. They clogged both lanes of the narrow highway as they raced for Ajdabiya, recaptured from loyalist troops days ago.
Some rebels said Colonel Qaddafi's forces, pushing eastward from Ras Lanuf, were within 10 miles of Brega. As artillery or rockets pursued the fleeing rebels several miles north of the city, the colonel's forces seemed closer than that.
The retreating column seemed rudderless, a sea of vehicles and fighters armed with infantry weapons and light rockets, but lacking the resolve, training or leadership to stand up to even a modest display of force by Colonel Qaddafi's conventional armed forces. They were an unmistakably intimidated lot.
After several minutes of wild driving, some of the rebels tried to regroup, pulling over on the shoulder of the highway between Brega and Ajdabiya beside an abandoned restaurant and a small mosque.
A man standing on a pickup truck and brandishing an assault rifle led a crowd in chants of ''God is great!'' Morale appeared to stabilize.
Then a single artillery shell or rocket exploded several hundred yards away, kicking up dust and black smoke. The crunch of the impact made the rebels flinch.
The chanting ceased at once. The rebels scattered, dashing for their vehicles and speeding east anew, their panic both infectious and a display of an absence of command and control.
At one point, midafternoon, a government T-72 tank was seen afire half a mile or so off the road, beside another tank that appeared recently abandoned.
The rebels thought a coalition aircraft had stopped a flanking attack. But after the tank erupted in a tremendous flash, curious rebels approaching it determined it had succumbed not to violence but vandalism. Someone, a bearded rebel said, had simply set the tank on fire, causing its ammunition to explode.
The nervous column pushed on, regrouping at last at the gate of Ajdabiya, where the rebels arrayed their mud-streaked trucks along the road. Some of them began to argue bitterly.
The reversal was almost complete. Last week on the same highway, allied airstrikes pounded loyalists, enabling the rebels to advance toward the Libyan leader's hometown, Surt, a symbolic and strategically important objective on the way to Tripoli.
Military analysts said that even after days of airstrikes, loyalist forces had enough resources to defend Colonel Qaddafi's urban strongholds, including Surt, where the dense civilian population could preclude air attacks.
As loyalists extend their lines east along the coast toward rebel redoubts, experts said, Colonel Qaddafi's forces risk opening themselves to renewed allied strikes. But rebels also said many loyalists now roamed the battlefield in pickups, making them indistinguishable from rebels when viewed by pilots overhead -- a shift in tactics that could render air power less effective.
In Beijing, President Hu Jintao criticized France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy, meeting there with finance officials, saying the Western air campaign he championed risked killing even more civilians than the attacks it was meant to stop.
Human Rights Watch, based in New York, said Colonel Qaddafi's forces had laid antipersonnel and antitank mines. It said about 60 mines had been found in Ajdabiya after government forces held it from March 17 to Sunday.
''Libya should immediately stop using antipersonnel mines, which most of the world banned years ago,'' said Peter Bouckaert, the group's emergencies director. ''Qaddafi's forces should ensure that mines of every type that already have been laid are cleared as soon as possible to avoid civilian casualties.''
The authorities in Tripoli had no immediate comment.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A man in Ajdabiya tried to get his family out of the city on Wednesday as government forces drew closer. Fleeing residents filled the road north to Benghazi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYAN DENTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (77%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



730 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Energy; ENERGY: A SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Ethanol Industry Hoping For Surge

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
CELLULOSIC ethanol could be poised for a surge -- finally.
Around the country and especially in the Midwest, a number of proposed plants that would turn corn cobs, wheat straw and other plant-based feedstocks into fuel and sell it on the market are working to secure the last stages of financing, and some could become operational in the next few years. A smattering of smaller pilot plants are already operating, helping companies to hone the technology and economics of their product.
''With the right policies, we could unleash literally dozens of projects,'' Brooke Coleman, executive director of the recently formed Advanced Ethanol Council, a coalition that includes cellulosic companies, said in an e-mail. ''Companies are ready to go.''
Mr. Coleman said roughly a dozen advanced ethanol projects had all or nearly all of the pieces in place, including location, partners and financing. These are either already producing ethanol or moving ahead with plans to do so. 
Another dozen or so companies also have plans, albeit somewhat less advanced. Mr. Coleman said those included large and small operations and companies that make ethanol from trash or algae, as well as from plant-based materials.
Of course, the cellulosic ethanol industry has had high hopes before. Four years ago, Congress ordered that 250 million gallons of cellulosic ethanol be produced in the United States in 2011. That would have equaled roughly 0.2 percent of the nation's annual gasoline use, a small but measurable amount.
Instead, after companies struggled to find capital during the economic downturn, federal regulators ratcheted down the expectations. Now, only 6.6 million gallons of cellulosic ethanol must be produced this year.
New plants would push the numbers up. In January, Coskata, an Illinois-based biofuel company, announced that the Agriculture Department would award it a $250 million loan guarantee to build a plant in Alabama capable of producing 55 million gallons of ethanol a year from wood debris. Poet, an ethanol maker based in South Dakota, hopes to have a 25 million-gallon-a-year cellulosic plant under construction in Iowa by the end of this year, according to Jeff Lautt, the company's president.
Another biofuels company, Mascoma, plans a $350 million, 40 million-gallon-a-year cellulosic plant in Michigan, and construction is expected to start this year, according to its chief executive, Bill Brady. Mascoma already operates a smaller demonstration plant in Rome, N.Y. Poet is operating one, too, in South Dakota.
The projected boom is coming at a time when rising oil prices stemming from Middle East unrest make ethanol more appealing. ''It just further supports the need'' for ethanol, said Mr. Lautt of Poet.
However, Mr. Coleman of the industry group noted that high oil prices might also make agricultural commodities more costly, and he said that the overall volatility of oil meant that ''a short-term oil price spike is not going to suddenly result in biorefineries popping up all over the place,'' so government policies are vital.
Federal help is crucial to all these plants. Both Mascoma and Poet are awaiting loan guarantees from the federal government -- an essential measure, says Mr. Lautt of Poet, because these are first-of-their-kind plants. Loans will cover about half the roughly $200 million to $250 million cost of Poet's plant, he said, and the project is also getting federal and state grants in addition to the equity Poet itself has put in.
But looming budget cuts could affect federal loan guarantees, Mr. Coleman said.
The federal government's support for the ethanol industry has come under sharp questioning in recent years, as opposition has grown against corn ethanol -- the ''first generation'' type of ethanol produced in this country. Environmentalists argue that growing corn to make ethanol produces too many greenhouse gases, partly relating to land-use change it causes, and also cuts into food supplies.
However, the industry rebuffs such arguments and complains that corn ethanol has been unfairly singled out for such analysis. Ethanol makers say the integration of ethanol in the nation's gas pumps helped reduce reliance on foreign oil. It has also created infrastructure that will benefit later and more efficient types of ethanol, like cellulosic.
Right now, controversy is heating up in Congress over a 45 cents-a-gallon tax credit for blending ethanol with gasoline, known as the ''volumetric ethanol excise tax credit,'' which was supposed to expire in December 2010 but was extended for one year. Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, is leading the charge to repeal the credit. Several ethanol industry groups -- with some support from lawmakers in corn-growing places like Iowa -- are trying to keep it.
The scheduled expiration is ''going to force a serious conversation on how this country wants to incent ethanol,'' said Mr. Coleman of the ethanol group. The current tax credit does not distinguish between corn and cellulosic ethanol, and Mr. Coleman said any reform ''should and likely will contain'' provisions that would specifically provide incentives for advanced ethanol.
Federal officials have used a variety of tools over the years to promote ethanol, including mandated production goals. But many of these are increasingly controversial; the latest example was an E.P.A. decision in January to allow a 15 percent blend of ethanol into vehicles at least as new as the 2001 model. Ethanol makers sought this as a way to expand their market, but automakers resisted -- and whether gasoline retailers will actually carry higher blends anytime soon remains to be seen.
Partly as a result of the controversy over corn ethanol, environmentalists are approaching cellulosic companies with a skeptical eye.
Franz Matzner, the Washington-based climate and air legislative director for the Natural Resources Defense Council, said that ''the verdict is still out on any feedstock'' and that his group was especially concerned about ''the push to turn our forests into fuel.''
Mr. Brady of Mascoma, whose Michigan plant will use a mix of hardwood pulpwood (the type of low-value trees that pulp and paper companies often use), said his company was confident that it would engage in sustainable harvesting. He also noted that several pulp and paper mills would be closing in the area in coming years, which should increase the supply of wood.
Oil companies, meanwhile, are showing an interest in the new fuel. In January, the refinery giant Valero announced plans to invest up to $50 million in Mascoma's Michigan plant. Shell has created a joint venture with Iogen, a Canadian enzyme maker; the two companies have an Ottawa demonstration plant that produces fuel from wheat straw. In June, during the oil-spill cleanup in the Gulf of Mexico, BP spent $98 million to acquire the cellulosic business of its biofuel partner, Verenium, including plants in Louisiana and San Diego.
When the first commercial-scale operations arrive in the coming years, prospects for cellulosic ethanol should brighten, Mr. Brady of Mascoma said.
''Once we all show the world that these plants can work and these plants can be commercially viable,'' he said, ''then things will really take off.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A TRANSFORMATION: Leaves and corn cobs on their way to becoming ethanol at the Poet plant in Scotland, S.D.
 THE PRODUCT: A sample of fermenting cellulosic ethanol. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID EGGEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLS (93%); ETHANOL (93%); BIOFUELS (92%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (90%); BIOMASS (89%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); GRAIN MARKETS (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (69%); PRICE INCREASES (60%)

COMPANY: COSKATA INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325193 ETHYL ALCOHOL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SCOTLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



731 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: In Foreclosure Settlement Talks With Banks, Predictions of a Long Process

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
Little was settled in the first round of foreclosure settlement talks.
The nation's top mortgage servicers met Wednesday in Washington with the attorneys general from five states as well as Obama administration officials, beginning negotiations in earnest over new rules for homeowners who are in default.
The one thing everyone seemed to agree on was that an agreement was going to take time. 
''We have a long way to go,'' Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, who is leading the effort from the states' side, said after the afternoon session broke up.
''Obviously this is a very large set of issues, and it's going to take some time to work through,'' Thomas J. Perrelli, associate United States attorney general, said.
The quest to secure new foreclosure rules, which began last fall after the banks were shown to be breaking the rules as they pursued evictions, may be slow but it is playing out in public. When the effort was started, every attorney general signed on, but the coalition has begun to fracture.
Several Republican attorney generals are accusing their colleagues of overreaching in their attempt to bring the banks under control, while at least one Democrat, Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York attorney general, has expressed concern that any deal would immunize the banks from future legal action.
After Wednesday's meeting, Mr. Schneiderman said through a spokesman that he remained worried about ''providing broad amnesty to servicers.''
The banks at the meeting were Bank of America, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and GMAC. A spokeswoman for GMAC, which is partly owned by taxpayers as a result of failing during the recession, called the session ''productive and useful'' but added it was ''an extremely complex topic.'' The other banks declined to comment.
Lengthy negotiations work to the banks' advantage, critics say.
''The banks' strategy is to run the clock,'' a Georgetown University law professor, Adam Levitin, said. ''The chances of a settlement that meaningfully reforms mortgage servicing and makes the banks pay an appropriate price for illegal conduct are rapidly slipping away.''
The government negotiators may receive some support from the imminent release of a report by banking regulators. The report, based on investigations conducted over the winter, is expected to establish what many households in default knew long ago: that banks cared little for the legal niceties governing foreclosure, exacerbating the troubles of millions at a particularly vulnerable point of their lives.
In addition, the report is expected to show that bank employees were poorly trained, that they let law firms and other third party contractors run wild, and that they had little interest in keeping people in their houses.
Lenders say they have fixed these problems, and that few if any homeowners were evicted who did not deserve it. But as recently as a few weeks ago, a major bank, HSBC, which is based in London, was forced to suspend foreclosures when regulators found a number of deficiencies.
Enforcement action is expected to follow the release of the report by the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and other banking regulators. Those fines and penalties would be separate from any monetary settlement that results from talks with the state attorneys general.
The banking regulators were not present at Wednesday's all-day meeting.
About two million households are in foreclosure, and another two million are in severe default. Data released this week by an analytics firm, LPS Applied Analytics, showed that banks were making some progress with modifications but that foreclosure was becoming, for better or worse, a permanent state for many families.
The government proposals require homeowners in foreclosure to be treated on an individual basis and would put in place a variety of measures that would encourage banks to modify mortgages rather than evict.
''I'm really hopeful something comes out of this,'' said Jay Speer of the Virginia Poverty Law Center. ''It's starting to look like the last chance for real reform. The Virginia legislature still has this amazing allegiance to the big banks.''
If the negotiations are being conducted behind the scenes, the banks and their supporters are openly waging a battle for popular sentiment. The banks are presenting themselves as champions of those homeowners who might be hostile to the idea of someone in default getting an undeserved break.
Banks say cutting the mortgage debt of foreclosed families into something more bearable creates issues of moral hazard -- that people will default to get a better deal.
Even as JPMorgan Chase representatives were meeting with the task force, the bank's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, was rejecting the idea of writing down delinquent balances.
''Yeah, that's off the table,'' Mr. Dimon told reporters after a United States Chamber of Commerce forum in Washington.
His comments echoed previous remarks by other bankers, including the Wells Fargo chief executive John G. Stumpf, who said ''it makes no sense'' to entice people not to pay their debts.
Four Republican attorneys general wrote a letter last week to Mr. Miller of Iowa, expressing concern with the ''scope, regulatory nature and unintended consequences,'' of the settlement proposals, particularly with the question of principal reductions. The attorney general of Virginia, Kenneth T. Cuccinelli, one of the signatories, was invited to Wednesday's session to allay his concerns.
Critics of the banks say the entire issue is a red herring, and that principal writedowns are not such a gift that people would default to get them.
''Moral hazard is being invoked by the banks and their defenders as an excuse to do nothing, rather than out of any real concern for fairness,'' Mr. Levitin said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An attempt at changing foreclosure rules began after banks were shown to be violating rules as they pursued evictions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); EVICTION (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); AMNESTY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



732 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; ON LOCATION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: In Democracy, Design Thrives

BYLINE: By DAVID KAUFMAN

 BODY:
SAN SALVADOR
HARRY and CLAUDIA WASHINGTON, born and bred Salvadorans, were barely in their teens when the civil war that ravaged El Salvador for more than a decade ended in 1992. Their country, which President Obama visited last week on a tour of Latin America, can now claim to have a stable democracy, albeit one grappling with a stagnant economy and drug-related crime.
It can also claim a fledgling design industry, thanks to the Washingtons and their small community of colleagues. The couple, who met as students at the School of Applied Arts in San Salvador, are the principals of Due Estudio, one of the first Salvadoran design firms to establish a presence outside Central America. 
Home for the Washingtons and their year-old daughter, Valentina, is a 1,250-square-foot two-bedroom apartment in San Benito, an affluent neighborhood in western San Salvador, the country's capital. The fifth-floor apartment, which they bought in late 2006 for $165,000, doubles as a home and informal showroom. ''We did not have an office when we first moved in,'' said Mr. Washington, 31. ''So we wanted our home to be a gallery and a laboratory for our work.''
Much of that work is for Bernhardt Design, a furniture maker in North Carolina that asked Due to join its Global Editions division in 2008. The division, which has manufactured pieces by notable designers like Arik Levy and Yves Behar, produces the work of various designers as part of a single annual collection. The timing was fortuitous for the Washingtons, both personally and professionally: the sizable commission allowed them to finish renovating their apartment and showroom, a process that took four years and cost $30,000.
About a year ago, after they had moved their design studio into a nearby office building and their manufacturing workshop into a downtown industrial space, they were able to plunge into the final stages of renovation, demolishing a pair of walls to create an open living area where there had been a separate kitchen, dining room and salon.
The home's new ''social space,'' said Mrs. Washington, 34, is anchored by a pine dining table made from a drafting board set on a metal frame. ''You can literally see four years of work on its surface.''
Just beyond the dining area are some of the couple's latest designs, including their round Curio table made from coffee-tree wood and a prototype of their Calibra sofa for Bernhardt. ''The sofa was part of our first Bernhardt collection,'' Mr. Washington said, adding that the prototype was a gift from Bernhardt's creative director, Jerry Helling.
The apartment's most dramatic element is also its newest: a wall stretching from the kitchen to the balcony, covered in planks of light and dark pine. The Washingtons used a similar element in their design for Steve Madden stores across Central America. ''The wood added character, texture and warmth to the room,'' Mrs. Washington said. ''But also a nice urban quality.''
They designed most of the bedroom furniture as well: the laurel bed, a wheeled closet system, the cedar end tables. And, of course, Valentina's crib, a cube of laurel strips perched on pivoted legs that is a big hit -- and not just with Valentina. ''Friends are already ordering cribs for themselves,'' Mrs. Washington said.
As the couple prepares for the spring furniture fairs in Milan and New York, their apartment looks and feels complete, and clients stop by regularly to see their designs.
But the Washingtons are equally proud of the role their company is playing in presenting El Salvador in a fresh light: a country where former leftist guerrillas are now democratically elected ministers, and local design talent is gaining international recognition. As Mr. Washington said, ''Everyone at Due understands we are part of something larger than ourselves.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 7, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article last Thursday about the renovation of a home in San Salvador misidentified a school attended by the owners. It is the School of Applied Arts at the Universidad Dr. Jose Matias Delgado, not the University of Applied Arts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1. Harry and Claudia Washington's San Salvador apartment has piping running along the ceiling to hold electrical cables. Mrs. Washington designed the shelving unit in the dining area.
2. A prototype of the Calibra sofa that the couple designed for Bernhardt sits in front of a wall covered with pine planks to give the room warmth.
3 . A sliding partition made from recycled doors divides the living area -- which is furnished with Curio tables and a Calibra armchair designed for Bernhardt -- from the bedrooms behind.
4., 5. The dining table was made from an old drafting board that bears the heavy scratches and grooves of its previous life in the Washingtons' studio. ''We can recognize years of work from the markings on the table,'' Mrs. Washington said. They paired it with a set of Eames chairs.
6 . The couple's daughter, Valentina, has a crib made of laurel wood and nontoxic lacquered fiberboard. The hanging lamp is a prototype for a design they did for Hush Puppies stores in Central America.
 7. A painting by Mr. Washington hangs above the couple's laurel wood bed. ''You can appreciate nature just out the window,'' he said of the view, which takes in the El Espino rainforest and the slopes of the San Salvador Volcano. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MORIS MORENO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); FURNITURE MFG (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) EL SALVADOR (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (91%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2011



733 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Just Look at This Place. What's Not to Love?

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ; Ashley Parker contributed reporting.

 BODY:
''Flabbergasting'' was the word in Brooklyn. ''Impossible,'' newspapers in Queens claimed. ''Inconceivable,'' said the mayor.
In a city that likes to call itself the center of the universe, the news that New York City grew by a mere 2.1 percent over the past decade prompted an array of emotions across the five boroughs: exasperation, indifference, shame, bewilderment.
This is the city of the Yankees and Broadway, of Ellis Island and the Statue of Liberty, of sky-high buildings and never-ending parks. How could the world not be rushing to its shores? 
For many New Yorkers, what seems to be at stake is nothing less than the city's supersize reputation. In a place that likes to dream big, an increase of about 167,000 people over 10 years feels anemic and, to some, embarrassing.
''It's a feather in our cap, so to speak, being the largest city in the country,'' Dan Moreland, 42, a Manhattan lawyer, said at Grand Central Terminal the other day. ''It's important that we maintain that as a matter of our own self-worth.''
Yes, the official count of 8,175,133 was an all-time high for the city for a 10-year census, and the 2.1 percent increase came at a time when other major cities were in decline -- Detroit's population, for instance, plunged an astonishing 25 percent. But never mind that: this is New York, where it does not seem so preposterous that 167,000 people could be crammed into a few No. 6 trains during rush hour.
The city, perhaps sensing its pride was at stake, has reacted angrily.
Stage one: denial. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg cried ''undercount,'' saying the data crunchers at the Census Bureau had missed scores of immigrants. It seemed highly suspect, he said, that the population of Queens increased by just 1,343 people since 2000.
''Could that really be possible?'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''As they say in Brooklyn: Fuhgeddaboudit.''
Stage two: defiance. Dozens of lawmakers joined Mr. Bloomberg on Sunday to demand a recount. ''The numbers are dead wrong,'' Senator Charles E. Schumer said. ''It makes you wonder if the Census Bureau is living on a different planet.''
To be sure, more than bragging rights are at stake: the federal government factors in population when it allocates aid, and elected officials say that the city could be shortchanged by millions of dollars if the current figures stand. Population data is also used to determine how legislative lines are drawn.
But money and politics aside, the census figures seem to have done something more profound to New York, bruising the ego of a city known for egos.
When Phyllis Newman, 78, an actress and Tony Award winner, heard about the census results, she said she had three words for the federal government: ''Get a life.''
''It's more crowded than ever,'' said Ms. Newman, a lifelong New Yorker who lives on the Upper West Side. ''It always looks like New Year's Eve in Times Square. That's vitality. They made a terrible mistake.''
Based on preliminary census estimates, city officials had expected New York's population to increase by nearly 400,000, to 8.4 million.
Joseph J. Salvo, the city's chief demographer, said it was important to look at the numbers in context, even if they prove to be correct, which he doubts. While other cities outpaced New York in their growth rates, he noted that only one other -- San Antonio -- actually added more people (183,000, for a growth rate of 16 percent).
''We are still adding close to 170,000 people, and while that is below what we expected, it's still quite formidable,'' Mr. Salvo said.
Still, there are signs that after growing by 9 percent from 1990 to 2000, New York's population boom might have begun to ease.
While the entire country grew more slowly in the past decade, the New York metropolitan area, including the suburbs, was particularly sluggish, increasing by 3.1 percent. By contrast, the metropolitan areas of Atlanta, Dallas and Houston all grew by more than 20 percent.
Historians attribute the growth in Sun Belt states to a variety of causes, including a lower cost of living, less-onerous building regulations and cheap and abundant land and housing.
The supply of housing in a city is generally a good predictor of population growth. A city can thrive financially, but it will not attract more people unless it allows robust building, economists say.
New York has added some 170,000 housing units over the last decade, compared with 200,000 in the previous decade. But according to census data, the number of people living in each unit has fallen, a trend the city disputes.
Kenneth T. Jackson, a Columbia University historian, said New York was ''a city where people come, and then disperse.'' He said one reason behind the lackluster numbers might have been the reluctance of New Yorkers to return census surveys. For the 2010 census, 63 percent of residents did so, up from 60 percent in 2000 but below the national average of 74 percent. Census takers are sent out to find the rest. ''There's a bunch of cantankerous types in New York,'' Professor Jackson said. ''Some people,'' he said, would not send the survey back ''if you gave them $200.''
But even for less-than-grouchy New Yorkers, the census data was enough to cause a fit. Several were adamant that the city's image as a thriving home to artists, entrepreneurs, financiers and everyone in between would endure.
''This is still the place where legends are made and dreams come true,'' said Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president. ''We're not going to take it lying down. We know we're right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Census Bureau says that the writhing, pulsing metropolis that sees itself as the center of the world added only about 167,000 residents to its population in the last decade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MAYOR MICHAEL R. BLOOMBERG
 SENATOR CHARLES E. SCHUMER (A21) CHART: Census Surprise: How many people live in the city? A lot fewer than even the Census Bureau thought until recently. Estimates are extrapolated from births, deaths and migration. The decennial census surveys all households, at least theoretically. (Source: Census Bureau)(A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); LAWYERS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



734 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM BEIJING; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: China Hedges Over Whether South China Sea is a 'Core Interest' Worth War

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Li Bibo contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- When President Hu Jintao of China dropped in on Washington this winter, one hot-button topic was notably absent from the agenda: the South China Sea. Nor will Chinese officials be keen to discuss it during a summit meeting between the countries planned for May in Washington.
In the past year, it has been one of the most delicate diplomatic issues between China and the United States. Perhaps no other point of tension has been as revealing of the difficulties American officials have reading and responding to Chinese foreign policy. But in recent months, Chinese leaders have apparently been happy to let the issue quiet down, perhaps for the sake of smoothing over relations with the Obama administration.
China, Taiwan and four Southeast Asian nations have been wrangling for years over territorial claims to the South China Sea. Then last July, amid heightening tensions in the waters, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton rallied with Southeast Asian nations to speak out against China. She bluntly said in Hanoi that the United States had a ''national interest'' in the area, and that China and other countries should abide by a 2002 agreement guaranteeing a resolution of the sovereignty disputes by ''peaceful means.'' 
Chinese officials were shocked that the United States was getting involved, analysts say. A public debate erupted in China over this question: Should China officially upgrade the South China Sea to a ''core interest,'' placing it on par with other sovereignty issues like Tibet, Taiwan and Xinjiang that could justify military intervention?
Some Chinese officials appeared to have floated that idea in early 2010 in private conversations with their American counterparts. Several American officials told reporters in Beijing and Washington last year that one or more Chinese officials had labeled the South China Sea a ''core interest.'' But despite those remarks and the public debate that came later, Chinese leaders have not explicitly come out with a policy statement describing the South China Sea as such -- nor have they denied it.
''It's not Chinese policy to declare the South China Sea as a core interest,'' said Zhu Feng, a professor of politics and international relations at Peking University. ''But the problem is that a public denial will be some sort of chicken action on the part of Chinese leaders. So the government also doesn't want to inflame the Chinese people.''
The Foreign Ministry and the State Council, China's cabinet, did not answer questions on the issue, despite repeated requests.
Michael Swaine, an analyst at the Carnegie Endowment for Peace, has published a paper with the China Leadership Monitor looking at China's growing use of the term ''core interest.'' Since 2004, Chinese officials, scholars and news organizations have increasingly used the term to refer to sovereignty issues. Initial references were to Taiwan, but the term now also encompasses Tibet and Xinjiang, the restive western region. After examining numerous Chinese print sources, Mr. Swaine concluded that China had not officially identified the South China Sea as a ''core interest.'' Some ''unofficial differences in viewpoint, along with the likely dilemma involved in confirming whether the South China Sea is a core interest, together suggest the possibility of disagreement among the Chinese leadership on this matter,'' Mr. Swaine wrote.
That is not to say that China has refrained from asserting its sovereignty claims. On March 24, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Jiang Yu, said at a news conference that China held ''indisputable sovereignty'' over the Spratly Islands.
By spring 2010, it seemed to some American officials that Chinese officials were pushing beyond the standard sovereignty claims, calling the South China Sea a ''core interest.'' In a November interview with The Australian, Mrs. Clinton said Dai Bingguo, the senior foreign policy official in the Chinese government, told her that at a summit meeting in May 2010.
''I immediately responded and said, 'We don't agree with that,' '' Mrs. Clinton said, though some scholars in the United States and China question whether Mr. Dai made the remark. Then in July 2010, at a meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in Hanoi, Mrs. Clinton made the statements that enraged the Chinese. M. Taylor Fravel, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who studies China's territorial issues, said Mrs. Clinton's move was in reaction to a long series of episodes in the South China Sea that American officials believed reflected greater assertiveness by China.
After Mrs. Clinton's statements, the English-language edition of Global Times, a populist Chinese newspaper, published an angry editorial that linked the South China Sea to China's core interests -- ''China will never waive its right to protect its core interest with military means,'' it said. Senior military officers weighed in on both sides. Han Xudong, an army colonel and a professor at National Defense University, wrote in Outlook, a policy magazine, that ''China's comprehensive national strength, especially in military capabilities, is not yet enough to safeguard all of the core national interests. In this case, it's not a good idea to reveal the core national interests.''
The Web site of People's Daily, the official mouthpiece of the Communist Party, posted a survey asking readers whether it was now necessary to label the South China Sea a ''core interest.'' As of January, 97 percent of nearly 4,300 respondents had said yes.
Muddying the whole issue has been the parallel use of ''core interests'' advanced by Mr. Dai. In 2009, he broadened the definition of the term by saying China had three core interests: maintaining its political system, defending its sovereignty claims and promoting its economic development. Some Chinese officials might now see the South China Sea and all other sovereignty disputes as falling under ''core interests.''
The debate in the Chinese news media seemed to reflect a divide among Chinese officials. Then in the fall, news organizations were ordered to stop writing about it.
''Now I think they are backing away and downplaying the question because of the trouble it is causing with the U.S. and the ASEANs,'' said Joseph Nye Jr., a professor of international relations at Harvard and a former Pentagon official.
Monitoring China's actions in the South China Sea is a more reliable way of gleaning its intentions, said Lyle Goldstein, director of the China Maritime Studies Institute at the U.S. Naval War College. His research shows that in August, Modern Ships, a publication linked to the Chinese Navy, detailed how two civilian surveillance ships planted a Chinese flag in the southern part of the sea; Mr. Goldstein said the fact that the ships were unarmed showed that China was taking a cautious approach.
But ''there has been an increase in hawkish declarations by Chinese naval leaders since last summer, reflecting a dangerous escalation of tensions,'' Mr. Goldstein said. In November, Modern Ships quoted Admiral Hu Yanlin as saying that ''international anti-China forces led by America'' had stirred up discord in the region.
''We are peace-loving,'' Admiral Hu said, ''but we also need to make the appropriate plans and preparations.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) SOUTH CHINA SEA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (91%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (93%); TAIWAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



735 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Energy; ENERGY: A SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3024 words

HEADLINE: Can We Do Without The Mideast?

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
IMAGINE a foreign policy version of the movie ''Groundhog Day,'' with Bill Murray playing the president of the United States. The alarm clock rings. Political mayhem is again shaking the Middle East, crude oil and gasoline prices are climbing, and an economic recovery is under threat.
President Nixon woke up to the same alarm during the 1973-74 Arab oil embargo and declared Project Independence to end the country's dependency on imported oil. President Carter, during the Iranian revolution, called an effort to reduce dependency on foreign oil ''the moral equivalent of war.'' President George W. Bush called oil an addiction.
On Wednesday, in a nationally televised address, President Obama said, ''We cannot keep going from shock when gas prices go up to trance when gas prices go back down. We can't rush to propose action when prices are high, then push the snooze button when they go down again.'' 
So, with Libyan and other North African and Middle Eastern oil fields jeopardized by political upheaval and Japan's nuclear power disaster turning the energy world on its head, the alarm is ringing again. As gasoline prices rise and even the stability of Saudi Arabia is suddenly in question, energy independence is taking on new urgency.
The path to that independence -- or at least an end to dependence on the Mideast -- could well be dirty, expensive and politically explosive.
It would require transformational technology for electric cars and biofuels. But experts say that, at least in theory, it is a goal that is now in sight, especially with Canada and other friendly hemispheric partners now able to replace much of the oil imported from less friendly or stable producers.
''For the first time since the first oil shock, I see us decreasing our dependency on imported oil,'' Steven Chu, the energy secretary, said in an interview. Noting that the country now imports half its oil, he added: ''Can we be at half that in 20 years? Yeah, there is a real possibility of that.''
But the change will not come easily.
''Reducing America's liquid fuel imports by midcentury to under 20 percent is possible, but it depends on what the political system is willing to do, what the public is willing to accept in terms of higher prices and how the technology breaks for you,'' said John M. Deutch, a former director of the Central Intelligence Agency and a former under secretary of energy. ''The first thing you do is pop the price of gasoline up quite a bit, and that reduces consumption.''
Some analysts said that even faster change was possible, but that could mean big government subsidies and taxes to build more high-speed rail lines, to encourage truck and bus fleets to switch to natural gas and to push the development of wind, solar and geothermal energy. The storage capacity of car batteries would have to improve, and plentiful, low-cost biofuels from plant waste or algae would have to come to market. In the short term, more domestic drilling, including offshore and perhaps in the Alaskan Arctic, would be needed, whatever environmental damage it might bring. Higher gasoline prices are likely, from market forces or taxes or both.
In other words, to reduce oil imports by nearly half to 1982 levels -- they amounted to 28 percent of total consumption then -- might enrage conservatives, liberals, environmentalists and climate-change skeptics alike.
But some of the changes have already been set in motion.
AMY Myers Jaffe, associate director of the Rice University Energy Program, and other Rice researchers expect a drop of 4.3 million barrels a day in the use of oil by 2025 simply through improved fuel efficiency of vehicles mandated by Congress. That equals more than a third of current imports.
An additional 2.5 million barrels a day could be eliminated by 2050 with policies to make electric cars 20 percent of the American car fleet, the Rice researchers say. Drilling for more oil domestically would reduce dependency even faster.
''We could be reaching a tipping point,'' Ms Jaffe said. ''Our entire oil profile could change.''
Oil imports now subtract more than a $1 billion a day from the United States balance of trade. Oil industry executives say that every additional million barrels of domestic oil produced generates a million new jobs and $30 billion in economic activity. And domestic production would reduce the flow of petrodollars that now help finance regimes unfriendly to the United States in places like Venezuela.
Because the United States has bountiful supplies of coal, natural gas and nuclear energy, as well as growing amounts of energy from renewable sources, the nation is already independent when it comes to the electrical power that heats and cools its homes and buildings and runs its factories.
With the glut in natural gas that has developed in the last five years, there is the potential to have enough to power vehicles directly or through eventual electrification of the transportation fleet. Electrical capacity could also be developed with a federal effort to extend transmission lines to link wind and solar power sources with large population centers. In the aftermath of the Japanese disaster, nuclear power will need to be put on safer footing and expanded. Future improvements in the energy efficiency of buildings could reduce the fuel they consume.
The problem the nation faces is easy to define: it's the 19 million barrels of oil a day used by its cars, trucks and aircraft. Though the United States remains one of the largest oil producers in the world, it has been an importer since the late 1940s, with imports rising and domestic production declining fairly steadily year after year over the last quarter-century, until recently.
But a shift in the last couple of years has received little attention. Oil imports have edged lower and domestic output has increased, enough so that the United States is no longer importing 60 percent of its oil, as it was the last time oil prices were spiking four years ago.
''We're 80 percent energy-independent to begin with, so we're pretty far along,'' said Daniel Yergin, the oil historian. ''Our oil imports are down to 50 percent, and there has been a rebalancing of where we import oil from.''
Since 2007, the United States has decreased its oil imports from nations of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries by more than a million barrels a day (including 400,000 barrels less from Saudi Arabia and 300,000 less from Venezuela), while decreasing its imports from non-OPEC countries by half that much, according to the Energy Department.
During the 1970s, synthetic fuel from oil sands was little more than an experiment. Now more than 20 percent of United States oil imports come from Canada, and half of that from oil sands. That could expand considerably if the Obama administration approves the extension of the Keystone pipeline to Gulf of Mexico refineries, as expected.
Synthetic oil from Canadian oil sands is dirtier to produce than most conventional crude, but it will be produced; if the United States does not import that oil, China will. Another 10 percent of American imports comes from Mexico, and increasing amounts from Colombia and Brazil, two dependable allies. The shifting sands of oil could be seen when President Obama did not cancel his recent trip to Brazil even as allied air and naval forces went on the attack in Libya.
The potentially unstable or otherwise unreliable countries of the Persian Gulf and North Africa, Venezuela and perhaps Nigeria, supply a combined total of about five million barrels a day -- about a quarter of United States consumption. That is the amount that ought to be the target.
There are several ways to replace those barrels, some of which have already been tried, with some success, in the United States and other countries. A decade of progress stretching from the early 1970s through the early 1980s is now mostly forgotten, but high oil prices drove two Republican and one Democratic administration to lower highway speeds to 55 miles an hour, divert federal funds from highways to mass transit, restrict the use of oil by utilities and oblige automakers to improve their efficiency standards.
Along with the conservation efforts, the country completed the Trans-Alaska pipeline system to bring Alaskan oil to the lower 48 states and created a Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Research and development of shale oil, geothermal, nuclear and solar energy were all increased with federal support.
The efforts of the Nixon, Ford and Carter administrations slashed oil imports in half from 1977 to 1982.
Because the country has become more dependent on oil imports today, it is easy to dismiss those efforts of a generation ago as a failure, but that would be the wrong lesson to draw.
Some advances were permanent: oil had been responsible for 15 percent of the nation's electrical generation in 1975, consuming 1.4 million barrels a day, but now is only a trivial power source. The 1975 energy act obliged auto companies to double efficiency to 27.5 miles a gallon by 1985, saving hundreds of millions of barrels of imports over the years.
Subsequent administrations discarded many of the effective policies when oil prices collapsed and remained low through much of the 1980s and 1990s, while private investment in developing oil and unconventional fuel sources also withered. Federal budgets for research on conservation and alternative fuels were slashed. Automobile efficiency standards remained unchanged. Oil imports rocketed from 27 percent of United States oil consumption in 1985 to 60 percent in two decades since then.
Yet the same tools that worked 30 years ago -- from producing more oil in Alaska to increasing biofuel production to creating more fuel-efficient cars -- exist today.
''It's become chic to say we can do nothing to solve this problem, but past success can give us hope for the future,'' said Jay Hakes, director of the Carter Library and former director of the federal government's Energy Information Agency. ''We can get to energy independence, and we have begun moving in that direction already in the last three or four years.''
The high oil prices in recent years have helped the effort, and there is some evidence that gasoline usage in the United States may have peaked in 2007. With cars and trucks becoming more efficient and ethanol use expanding, American drivers will probably use less oil in the future despite predicted increases in population.
The 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act, the most serious energy legislation in a generation, went a long way toward reaching those goals. It raised auto and light truck efficiency requirements to 35 miles a gallon by 2020, from the current 27.5. It obliged producers of transportation fuels to gradually increase blending of biofuels into gasoline to replace oil, from nine billion gallons a year in 2008 to 36 billion gallons in 2022, a goal that will require the production of advanced biofuels in commercial quantities. Pilot-scale plants are working on producing various kinds of advanced cellulosic ethanol, butanol and other biofuels made out of plant and other wastes.
The results could be revolutionary, as the American vehicle fleet is replaced over the next 15 years. Several car companies are working on improvements to the internal combustion engine that could yield 50 miles to the gallon, or more, in a few years.
Genetically modified crops promise to improve yields for ethanol. Every major auto manufacturer has a hybrid or plug-in electric car planned for the marketplace, and utilities and other companies are working on building a charge-up infrastructure in cities across the country. Battery prices are coming down significantly.
A recent study by the consulting firm Accenture estimated that it would be possible to replace 30 percent of gasoline demand by 2030 by adopting a fuel-efficiency standard of 40 miles a gallon over the next 20 years and gradually doubling the current blending of biofuels to 30 billion gallons by 2030.
Research breakthroughs are occurring across a wide range of alternative fuels and vehicles, but barriers to reaching commercial scale remain. Competitiveness with oil-based technologies is not guaranteed unless there is some government intervention, like subsidies or taxes on carbon.
''We are on the trajectory to reduce our imports substantially, but it's not going to be an easy journey,'' said Melissa Stark, partner and senior energy analyst at Accenture, ''because the new technologies will have to compete with our very efficient oil industry. There has to be a pathway to competitiveness.''
In the meantime, natural gas has the greatest promise to replace diesel fuel in trucks. Clean Energy Fuels, a natural gas distributor, estimates that the country's eight million trucks use up to 40 billion gallons of diesel a year. The company figures it would take five trillion cubic feet of gas a year to replace that amount of diesel, which alone would displace 2.3 million barrels of oil a day.
With natural gas reserves of 284 trillion cubic feet (and with estimates rising), the country would have little trouble producing the gas, presuming that the oil and gas industry can answer growing environmental concerns surrounding their hydraulic fracturing practices.
The government would also need to provide billions of dollars of incentives for truck companies to convert their trucks and for filling stations to install the fueling equipment.
A conversion may be beginning. United Parcel Service recently announced that it would add 48 trucks fueled on liquid natural gas to its fleet and would add more once the fueling infrastructure was in place. It took $5.5 million in government grants for the project, and more research is needed to develop pump technology and onboard storage tanks to prevent methane escapes.
Then, of course, there is the ''drill baby drill'' approach -- not the best, many environmentalists would argue, to protect the environment and reduce climate change but one that is already working to decrease imports.
In 2009, the United States produced more oil than the year before for the first since 1985 because of the combined increase in production from deepwater Gulf of Mexico production and drilling in a giant shale field in North Dakota.
Domestic production again rose in 2010, by 3 percent, while imports have fallen slowly but steadily since 2006. Edward Westlake, a Credit Suisse managing director for energy research, calculates that the United States will be producing an additional 2.4 million barrels of oil and other liquid fuels by 2016, on top of the 8.6 million barrels a day produced in 2010, even with a natural decline in existing domestic oil fields.
At the same time he forecasts a small increase in demand for transportation fuels. ''Bottom line, we're becoming more independent but more work needs to be done,'' he said. The blowout on a BP well in the Gulf of Mexico last year that left 11 workers dead and spilled millions of barrels of crude will undoubtedly slow development offshore for at least a few years, and was a setback to energy independence.
Before the spill, deepwater production in the Gulf had climbed in only a decade from a trickle to 1.2 million barrels a day, and it was expected to climb an additional 400,000 barrels a day by 2012. But the accident will surely slow drilling for several more years at least.
But offshore drilling will not be off the table forever, and oil executives believe many years of discoveries will be made once approvals start up again. As for the eastern Gulf and Atlantic coast currently closed to exploratory drilling, the federal government estimates they contain 3.8 billion barrels of oil, roughly comparable to Norway's reserves.
Many geologists say those estimates are based on incomplete testing and seismic data that is decades old. They note that the geology of the eastern gulf is similar to coastal central and southern Mexico, where some of the hemisphere's most productive oil fields lie. Meanwhile, parts of the Atlantic coast were connected approximately 200 million years ago to parts of the coast of West Africa like Guinea and Mauritania, where large oil fields have been found.
Oil production in Alaska, which has been in decline for decades, could be doubled in the meantime from its current yield of 680,000 barrels a day by opening up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and Arctic waters that are currently closed to drilling. The refuge has 10.4 billion barrels of recoverable oil, according to the federal government, and by some estimates, Alaska's Arctic waters, now also off limits, hold 50 percent more than that.
There are compelling environmental reasons not to drill more in the Alaskan Arctic, even though low production from the aging North Slope Fields means the Trans Alaska pipeline is running at only a third of its capacity, increasing the likelihood that water will freeze in the pipes and cause corrosion and leaks on the tundra. But approving more drilling in Alaska will be a tough political slog.
More relevant is the little-known new drilling for oil in shale fields made possible by the same hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling techniques that have increased natural gas production.
Production from the Bakken field in North Dakota alone has risen to more than 350,000 barrels a day this year, and experts expect that will reach 800,000 barrels a day in five to seven years. Shale fields in Texas, Colorado, Wyoming and California, barely explored, have vast potential.
Pete Stark, vice president for industry relations at IHS Cera, estimates that as much as 1.5 million barrels a day may be produced by 2020 from the shale fields, which have in excess 20 billion barrels of recoverable oil -- decades of productive capacity.
''That's a million barrels of oil a day that nobody has had in their forecasts,'' Mr. Stark said. ''This could be the leading edge of a game changer that will provide a cushion for energy security at a time when traditional OPEC supplies are at risk.''
Some day, maybe Bill Murray won't have to wake up again, grumpy and dissatisfied. But right now, that alarm clock is ringing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ALLIES A natural gas worker in Canada, above, and oil exploration off the coast of Brazil, below. Many say it is best for the United States to import oil from nations that are its friends. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NORM BETTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS, VIA GETTY IMAGES
SERGIO MORAES/REUTERS)
AFLOAT: A floating storage and production unit in the Gulf of Mexico used by Mexico's state owned oil company Pemex. The United States imports 10 percent of its oil from Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSANA GONZALEZ/BLOOMBERG NEWS, VIA GETTY IMAGES) (F1)
NEW SOURCES: Pipes, above, to drill natural gas from shale in West Virginia. Below, oil sands pipes in Alberta, Canada, with the world's second largest crude reserve. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TY WRIGHT/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 JIMMY JEONG/BLOOMBERG NEWS, VIA GETTY) (F6) MAP (Source: Natural Earth (map terrain)) (MAP BY JOE BURGESS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); BIOFUELS (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (64%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); STEVEN CHU (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (68%) MIDDLE EAST (95%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



736 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Journalist Is to Distill Envoy's Storied Career

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
When Richard C. Holbrooke died in December, he left behind the notes for a project he never had time to finish.
Mr. Holbrooke, a prominent diplomat in Democratic administrations since the 1960s, had planned to write a memoir, the story of a life that spanned numerous international conflicts, many of which he saw up close.
Now the keys to that archive have been handed over to George Packer, the author and a staff writer for The New Yorker, who has signed a deal with Knopf to write a book about Mr. Holbrooke's career and the trajectory of American foreign policy during his time as a diplomat. 
The idea came together after Mr. Holbrooke's death, when a group of his friends approached Mr. Packer, the author of a New Yorker profile of Mr. Holbrooke in 2009, and asked him if he had thought of writing a book.
''The truth was, I had been thinking about it,'' Mr. Packer said this week. ''I hadn't really thought about what it would be. But I thought: 'What a life he had, how much ground he had covered, how many crises and big events in American foreign policy he had touched. He had such an outsized life that connected with so many important periods of recent American history.' ''
His experience in government was extraordinary. Mr. Holbrooke wrote a volume of the Pentagon Papers; at 35 was the youngest person ever to serve as assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs; he managed the negotiations in 1995 that ended the war in Bosnia; and had been the Obama administration's special representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Mr. Holbrooke fell ill in December during a meeting with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and underwent emergency surgery to repair a tear in his aorta. He died three days later.
His widow, Kati Marton, granted Mr. Packer exclusive access to the trove of notes, journals and tapes that her husband had meticulously assembled. The collection includes pocket-size notebooks with comments about people and events scrawled on hotel stationery, microcassettes with his recorded thoughts, and letters that he wrote as a young man from Vietnam, where he worked in the Mekong Delta for the United States Agency for International Development during the war and in the American embassy in Saigon. Near the end of his life, during his time in the Obama administration, Mr. Holbrooke kept more extensive, formal journals, Mr. Packer said.
Andrew Miller, the editor at Knopf who acquired the book, said the archive contains a wealth of material for Mr. Packer to draw on. Mr. Holbrooke ''poured a lot of his ideas and his emotions into the notes,'' Mr. Miller said. ''He had this incredible place where he was both participant and observer. He's been there for everything.''
Mr. Holbrooke, who was 69 when he died, was the chief architect of the 1995 Dayton peace accords that ended the war in Bosnia and informed his book, ''To End a War,'' published by Random House in 1998. Writing in The New York Times, Chris Hedges called it ''engaging, witty and dramatic,'' ''an impassioned plea for Washington to use the military might at its disposal to intervene when societies break down, to take a leadership role in the world and to reject the notion that putting an end to gross human rights abuses is a goal that must inevitably differ from pragmatic, self-interested foreign policy.''
In 1991 Mr. Holbrooke also collaborated with Clark Clifford, a presidential adviser, on Mr. Clifford's best-selling memoir, ''Counsel to the President.''
Interest in publishing the book about Mr. Holbrooke was intense. Several major publishers angled for the rights, with the bids rising to the high six figures, one publishing executive involved in the bidding said.
Executives at Knopf estimated that the new book, which is still untitled, would not be released until 2016. Mr. Packer is currently working on a book for Farrar, Straus & Giroux and has only begun to dig through Mr. Holbrooke's archive.
''There have been moments when I felt, they're not my papers, they're his papers,'' Mr. Packer said. ''He should be the one looking through them and figuring a structure for them. This is all much too fast and recent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard C. Holbrooke, left, on a mission to Pakistan in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FAROOQ NAEEM/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 George Packer, the author.(C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); HISTORY (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (77%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); VIETNAM (79%); ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



737 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Negotiations On Budget Inch Ahead In House

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As budget negotiations resumed on Capitol Hill and appeared to make headway, House Republican leaders on Wednesday began the delicate task of assessing what level of compromise they can sell to a conservative rank-and-file spoiling for a fiscal fight.
The potential difficulty of their job became clear after Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., following an evening meeting with Senate Democrats, said negotiators had effectively settled on $33 billion in reductions from current spending, a substantial difference from the $61 billion endorsed by the House in February. 
''There is no reason why, with all that's going on in the world and the state of the economy, we can't reach an agreement and avoid a government shutdown,'' Mr. Biden told reporters. ''The bottom line is, we are working off the same number now.''
Yet agreeing to a deal that would have to win the backing of both House Republicans, with Tea Party activists nipping at their heels, and Senate Democrats, their backs up and teeth gritted, is a bit like gearing up to ask the best-looking girl in class to the prom -- you probably do not want to make the first move unless you are pretty certain the answer is yes.
Top lawmakers and aides said they could not predict whether the bulk of House Republicans could be persuaded by the House speaker, John A. Boehner, and his chief lieutenants to back a compromise, which would no doubt be attacked by conservatives who do not want the party to give any ground.
''The big question is whether Boehner will split the conference,'' said Representative Mike Simpson, Republican of Idaho and a veteran member of the Appropriations Committee.
The resumption of meetings between Democratic and Republican leadership aides and the subsequent effort by the staff members from the House and Senate Appropriations Committees to write the fine print for a spending measure represented the first significant progress since talks broke down last week.
Like Mr. Boehner, Mr. Biden cautioned that no agreement would be considered final until both sides came to terms on what programs should see their spending reduced and that the final amount would depend on how many new policy and spending restrictions Democrats agreed to accept in any bargain.
''There is no deal until there is a whole deal,'' Mr. Biden said.
A spokesman for Mr. Boehner disputed Mr. Biden's depiction of the spending talks. ''The vice president simply hasn't been at the table,'' Michael Steel, the Boehner aide, said.
Whatever the final number, it was clear it would fall well short of the $61 billion House Republicans have endorsed and are reluctant to abandon.
''I think we are firmer now than we were last week,'' said Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina. ''I just got back from South Carolina and what I heard from the people there was loud and clear: 'We sent you there to do something big. And you didn't do it yet.' ''
With a rally planned for Thursday by Tea Party activists to encourage Republicans to hold their ground, some lawmakers said they believed that backing away from cuts already approved by the House would tell voters that Republicans have reverted to legislative business as usual.
''This is a defining moment,'' said Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana.
But other fiscal hawks said it might be time to end the dispute, which is over how much government spending to approve through Sept. 30, and move on to more consequential fights over increasing the federal debt limit and writing the budget for 2012.
''There are a lot of people who know this is small ball and are ready to get to the debt limit increase,'' said Representative Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona. ''A lot of us recognized we were not going to end up with $100 billion in the final product.''
In another sign of Republicans seeking wiggle room from the $61 billion in cuts that freshmen have said they cannot live without, some freshman House Republicans on Wednesday wrote a letter to Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, blaming the Senate for the stalemate and called for ''reasonable, responsible'' spending cuts.
In lining up backing for a compromise, Mr. Boehner and fellow party leaders will try to portray the legislation as a major victory for their party. Despite controlling only the House, they say they have managed to radically transform the conversation about how much government should spend to one about how much it can cut. And a cut of $33 billion would be slightly more than Republicans initially proposed this year before coming under Tea Party pressure to slash more.
A buy-in from the conservative rank-and-file on the spending measure is all the more crucial to Republicans as Congress heads right into the clashes over the 2012 budget and the effort to raise the nation's debt ceiling.
On Thursday, Republican freshmen will have the chance to hear from the architect of the 1995 government shutdown, and possibly glean some advice. Former Speaker Newt Gingrich is set to meet with all 87 of those members, and many said they were looking forward to hearing what he had to say.
''This has been on the books for some time,'' said Representative Cory Gardner, Republican of Colorado. ''We will get to hear his take on the politics of the day, what it was like back then, and maybe how it is now.''
For their part, Senate Democrats are pondering the math in the opposite direction -- how deep will that chamber allow spending cuts to go, and what sort of changes in environmental and health care policy they might be willing to go along with.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: House Republican freshmen taped a letter to Harry Reid to a Senate entrance. Then Representative Blake Farenthold, Republican of Texas, met with reporters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (79%); BLAKE FARENTHOLD (58%); MICHAEL K SIMPSON (58%); HARRY REID (58%); TREY GOWDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



738 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Energy; ENERGY: A SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: An Energy Plan Derailed by Events Is Being Retooled

BYLINE: By JOHN BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
IN just over two years in the White House, President Obama has seen the major elements of his energy and climate-change strategy demolished by a succession of economic, political, technical and natural disasters.
Mr. Obama came into office promising to enact a market-based system to combat global warming and encourage development of alternative energy sources. He endorsed a cap-and-trade system in his first State of the Union address and budget and began pushing for comprehensive legislation to place the nation on a path to a future less addicted to imported oil and more reliant on clean energy alternatives.
The plan's complex structure depended on an expansion of offshore oil drilling and nuclear power generation, creation of a trillion-dollar market in carbon pollution credits, billions of dollars of new government spending on breakthrough technologies and a tolerance for higher energy prices by consumers and businesses, all in the service of a healthier atmosphere and a more stable climate in future decades.
But one after another the pillars of the plan came crashing down. The financial crisis undercut public faith in markets. The Deepwater Horizon explosion and spill set back plans for offshore drilling by several years. The Japanese earthquake and tsunami, which led to a major release of radioactivity at the Fukushima Daiichi reactor complex, raised fears about nuclear power. 
Huge Republican gains in the midterm elections also dashed hopes for big new spending programs for energy technology. The upheaval in the Middle East has led to higher fuel prices and opposition to costly new regulations for the oil industry. And continuing high unemployment and sluggish economic growth have made raising energy costs for any reason a political nonstarter.
So what is left of the Obama administration's energy ambitions?
Cap and trade has morphed into a ''clean energy standard,'' under which 80 percent of electricity in the United States would be generated from clean sources by 2035. Mr. Obama laid out the goal in this year's State of the Union address and has promoted it at several events since.
In a speech at Georgetown University on Wednesday, the president went further to try to recapture the initiative on energy policy that Republicans seized after their midterm election gains. In response to rising oil prices, the turmoil in the Middle East and a growing chorus of criticism from Congress that he has choked off domestic oil exploration, Mr. Obama set a new goal -- to reduce American oil imports by one-third over the next decade.
He said that while there were no quick fixes to the nation's oil addiction, the United States needed to take a series of immediate steps to cut oil usage.
He called for producing more electric cars, converting trucks to run on natural gas, building new refineries to distill billions of gallons of biofuels and setting new fuel-efficiency standards for cars and trucks. He also said that the United States would continue to rely on nuclear power for decades and would have to find a way to burn coal with fewer climate-altering emissions.
Congress has been debating these measures for years.
''The only way for America's energy supply to be truly secure is by permanently reducing our dependence on oil,'' he said. ''We're going to have to find ways to boost our efficiency so that we use less oil. We've got to discover and produce cleaner, renewable sources of energy that also produce less carbon pollution that is threatening our climate. And we have to do it quickly.''
The president acknowledged that his energy proposals would require legislation and new money for innovative technologies and that getting either would be difficult in the current political climate. In the Georgetown speech, he noted that political gridlock had stymied the nation's energy policy since the first Arab oil embargo in 1973.
''That has to change,'' he said.
Some early efforts toward the president's plans are now under way in Congress, although for every step forward there appears to be at least one step back. Senate Democrats are trying to write legislation to meet part of the president's goal, but the Republican majority in the House seems determined to thwart any energy policy that does not begin with a major expansion of domestic coal production and oil and gas exploration.
So the administration has fallen back on a two-pronged strategy of discouraging dirty, old energy sources through regulation and encouraging clean, new technologies by heavy spending on innovation.
''It is true, a comprehensive energy bill is not going to be in the cards for this Congress,'' Steven Chu, the secretary of energy, said in an interview. ''That's why the president came up with this proposal for a clean energy standard.''
Mr. Chu, a Nobel laureate in physics, is a technology enthusiast and says the nation can produce the innovations in clean energy necessary to meet the president's goals if the right incentives are in place
The first piece is legislation that will require utilities to produce a growing proportion of electricity through clean sources -- nuclear, natural gas, hydropower, wind, solar, geothermal and new technology players to be named later. The second is a robust federal research and development program to nurture technologies that are too expensive today to compete with fossil fuels or are not yet ready for the marketplace. The result, Mr. Chu says, will be a flood of private money into energy development that is now waiting for a signal from federal government that it is serious.
''Why not start today?'' Mr. Chu asked. ''Just think of what it does. It unleashes private capital, private capital sitting on the sidelines, that immediately creates jobs.''
The president's plan includes $36 billion in new loan guarantees for building nuclear power plants, in addition to the $18.5 billion for the program left from the Bush administration. Mr. Chu defended the program, even in the aftermath of the Fukushima disaster, saying that the nation would need the zero-carbon electricity from nuclear power for many years.
But he said that the rules of the game for nuclear power in the United States might change, just as regulations for offshore drilling were tightened after the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. He would not speculate on how that might affect safety regulation or plant construction schedules.
''It's premature to say anything except that we will use this opportunity to learn as best we can,'' Mr. Chu told the House Energy and Commerce Committee in mid-March.
The other part of the strategy, federal regulation of greenhouse gases and other pollutants from conventional power sources, also faces a tough challenge. Most Republicans in Congress are skeptical about the science of global warming, some even declaring it a hoax perpetrated by a coterie of self-interested scientists. Hefty Republican majorities oppose virtually any form of federal regulation of the greenhouse gases that contribute to the problem.
The House Energy and Commerce Committee has already passed a bill that would forbid the Environmental Protection Agency from imposing any nationwide standard on emissions of carbon dioxide and other climate-altering gases. The full House is expected to endorse the measure soon, although it is unclear whether Republicans can muster the 60 votes needed to overcome a Democratic filibuster in the Senate.
Lisa P. Jackson, the E.P.A. administrator, has said that she is merely following the law and the consensus of scientists in seeking to rein in carbon emissions. She has repeatedly denounced the House bill as antiscientific and a threat to the nation's health and environment. She noted that it was not the only pending measure that would ''delay, weaken or eliminate Clean Air Act protections for the American people.'' History has shown that the benefits of clean air regulation outweigh the costs by a factor of more than 30 to 1, she said.
But her critics in Congress are unmoved. They say the country cannot afford a new regime of energy regulation when manufacturing is in a slump and businesses are looking for cheaper places to operate.
''Look at these greenhouse gas regulations coming from the E.P.A.,'' said Representative Fred Upton, the Michigan Republican who is chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. ''Where's the economic analysis? I haven't seen it. And these regulations are going to cost billions of dollars and tens of thousands of jobs.''
Mr. Upton said the administration needed to speed the granting of oil drilling permits in the Gulf and off the Alaskan coast, both of which have been slowed by environmental and safety reviews. He said the nuclear plant construction schedule needed to be accelerated. He also called for rapid approval of a pipeline from the huge oil sands project in Alberta, Canada, to refineries and terminals in Oklahoma and Texas.
''I believe in conservation and alternative energy, all available options, but you can't turn the switch off on all of these projects overnight,'' Mr. Upton said. ''The nation is going to need 40 to 50 percent more electricity before the end of the next decade. We're not prepared. We need a long-term energy plan.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LESS OIL: President Obama in a speech on Wednesday at Georgetown University urged a series of measures to cut oil imports. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (88%); BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); OIL SPILLS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (76%); OIL EXPLORATION (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (75%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); TSUNAMIS (72%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (71%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (70%); AIR POLLUTION (68%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (67%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (66%); BIOFUELS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



739 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: Obama Lays Out Plan to Cut Reliance on Fuel Imports

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON --
President Obama called on Wednesday for a one-third reduction in oil imports over the next decade, and said the effort had to begin immediately. In a speech at Georgetown University , the president said that the United States cannot go on consuming one- quarter of the world's oil production while posessing only two percent of global reserves. He said that the country had to begin a long-term plan to reduce its reliance on imported oil, and that the decades-long political bickering that has stalled progress toward that goal had to end.
With oil supplies from the Middle East now pinched by political upheaval with calls growing in Congress for expanded domestic oil and gas production, the president referred in his speech a similar runup in energy prices in 2008.
''Now here's the thing -- we've been down this road before,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Remember, it was just three years ago that gas prices topped $4 a gallon. I remember because I was in the middle of a presidential campaign.'' 
He continued: ''Because it was also the height of political season, so you had a lot of slogans and gimmicks and outraged politicians, they were waving their three-point-plans for two-dollar-a-gallon gas. You remember that: 'Drill, baby, drill' and all of that. And none of it would really do anything to solve the problem.''
Saying there were no quick fixes to the nation's oil addiction, Mr. Obama went on to propose a mix of measures, none of them new, to wean the nation off the barrel.
He called for a fuel-saving strategy of producing more electric cars, converting trucks to run on natural gas, building new refineries to brew billions of gallons of biofuels and setting new fuel-efficiency standards for vehicles. Congress has been debating similar measures for years.
''The only way for America's energy supply to be truly secure is by permanently reducing our dependence on oil,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We're going to have to find ways to boost our efficiency so that we use less oil. We've got to discover and produce cleaner, renewable sources of energy that also produce less carbon pollution that is threatening our climate. And we have to do it quickly.''
He pointed out that the nationn has had a tendency, ever since the first Arab oil embargo in 1973, to panic when gasoline prices rise and then fall back into old fuel-guzzling habits when prices recede.
''We cannot keep going from shock when gas prices go up to trance when gas prices go back down,'' he said. ''We can't rush to propose action when prices are high then push the snooze button when they go down again. We can't keep doing that. The United States of America cannot afford to bet our long-term prosperity and security on a resource that will eventually run out.''
More than half of the oil burned in the United States today comes from overseas or from Mexico or Canada.
The president repeated his assertion that, despite the frightening situation at the Fukushima Daiichi reactor complex in Japan, nuclear power will remain an important source of electricity in the United States for decades to come.
''It's important to recognize that nuclear energy doesn't emit carbon dioxide in the atmosphere,'' he said, noting that nuclear power now provides about one-fifth of domestic electricity supplies. ''Those of us concerned about climate change know that nuclear power, if it's safe, can make a significant contribution to the climate change question. And I'm determined to ensure that it's safe.'' He said he had directed the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to undertake a comprehensive safety review of the 104 reactors now operating in the United States.
He also responded to members of Congress and oil industry executives who have claimed that the administration has choked off domestic oil and gas production by imposing costly new regulations and by blocking exploration on millions of acres of potentially oil-rich tracts on shore and off.
He noted that the administration had put in place new safeguards after the Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico last April, and had begun to reissue drilling permits that had been stalled while the industry demonstrated that it could safely resume operations. And he noted that the energy industry already had leases covering vast areas that it was not using.
''So any claim that my administration is responsible for gas prices because we've shut down oil production -- any claim like that is simply untrue,'' the president said. ''It might make for a useful political sound bite -- but it doesn't track with reality.
The administration is not prepared to open new public lands and waters to drilling, officials said, but will use a new set of incentives and penalties to prod industry to develop resources on the lands they already have access to.
The Interior Department on Tuesday issued a paper saying that more than two-thirds of offshore leases in the Gulf of Mexico and more than half of onshore leases on federal lands are unused. Oil industry officials called the paper a smokescreen to cover the administration's stingy approach to drilling permits.
''This is an effort to distract the American people from rising gas prices and the fact that the administration has been delaying, deferring or denying access to our oil and natural gas resources here at home,'' said Erik Milito, the director of exploration policy at the American Petroleum Institute. ''Lease sales have been delayed or canceled, and this year, for the first time since 1957, we may not have a single offshore lease sale.''
White House officials indicated that Mr. Obama was turning to energy issues after a period of intense focus on turmoil in Libya and elsewhere in North Africa and the Middle East. At the outset of his remarks Wednesday, he linked the issues, noting that the unrest had reduced global oil supplies and driven up domestic fuel prices. The reduction in oil imports he has set as a target -- between three million and four million barrels a day over 10 years -- corresponds roughly to the amount of oil the United States now imports from the Middle East and Africa.
Presidents since Richard M. Nixon have made this point, and American oil imports have continued to rise, except when slowed by recession.
Republicans in Congress have grown increasingly vocal about the administration's energy and environment policies, saying they discourage domestic oil and gas development and impose heavy costs on industry in a period of economic angst. On Tuesday, House Republicans introduced three bills to reverse the administration's offshore oil drilling policies, calling for vast new tracts of offshore territory to be opened to deep-water drilling and for speedier approval of drilling permits.
On the Senate floor, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, denounced the president for a variety of alleged energy sins, including telling Brazilian officials last week that the United States would be an eager consumer for its offshore oil.
''You can't make this stuff up,'' Mr. McConnell said.
''Here we've got the administration looking for just about any excuse it can find to lock up our own energy sources here at home,'' he said, ''even as it's applauding another country's efforts to grow its own economy and create jobs by tapping into its own energy sources.''
The administration imposed a moratorium on most deep-water drilling activities in the aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon explosion, which killed 11 rig workers and released nearly five million barrels of oil into the Gulf of Mexico. The Interior Department wrote new safety and environmental rules for offshore drilling and officially lifted the moratorium in October.
The department has now issued seven permits for activities that were halted under the suspension, with 12 other deep-water permits pending. An additional 24 permit applications have been returned to applicants for more information.
Mr. Obama also renewed his call from the State of the Union address to increase the percentage of electricity produced from so-called clean sources to 80 percent from the current 40 percent by 2035. The president's definition of clean energy includes renewable sources like wind, solar and geothermal energy and hydroelectric generation; it also includes nuclear power, natural gas and coal with carbon capture, and storage, an as-yet-unproved technology.
He said his clean-energy proposal would give companies incentives to invest in new technology and would help the United States compete in global markets for low-carbon energy sources. The United States currently trails China and Germany in investment in clean-energy technology. His budget for the next fiscal year calls for $8 billion in research and development spending on new energy sources.
On Friday, the president will appear at a United Parcel Service depot in Landover, Md., to talk about ways to make commercial truck and bus fleets more fuel-efficient and to make greater use of domestically produced natural gas in transportation.
Online Correction: March 30, 2011, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A previous version of this article misstated how many of the president's proposals to reduce the country's reliance on imported oil were new in his speech on Wednesday. None of them were, not one of them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (91%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (88%); OIL & GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); BIOFUELS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (62%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



740 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Elizabeth Warren Tells Chamber of Commerce They Share Some Ideals

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- She never actually uttered ''I come in peace,'' but Elizabeth Warren, the Obama administration aide charged with setting up the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, might have felt like an alien visiting an anxious planet Wednesday when she went to the United States Chamber of Commerce.
''I do not consider myself in hostile territory right now because I believe we share a point of principle: competitive markets are good for consumers and for businesses,'' Ms. Warren told about 300 executives at the chamber's annual conference on capital markets. But, she added, ''Markets don't work in the way they are supposed to unless there are some well-enforced rules.'' 
The detail and scope of those rules are what worry the members of the chamber and some members of Congress, both of whom have been vocal in their criticism of the regulatory powers given to the new consumer agency by the Dodd-Frank Act, the financial regulation bill signed into law last July.
The disagreements between Ms. Warren and one of her chief critics, Representative Spencer Bachus, Republican of Alabama and chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, grew more heated hours after her address. Mr. Bachus accused Ms. Warren of mischaracterizing her recent participation in the mortgage service industry settlement talks.
Last week, Ms. Warren told the committee that she provided ''advice'' to the Treasury secretary and others about a possible settlement but was not involved in the negotiations. State attorneys general and federal officials are discussing a settlement with mortgage service companies in response to questionable foreclosure practices.
On Wednesday afternoon, Mr. Bachus released a seven-page document titled ''Perspectives on Settlement Alternatives in Mortgage Servicing,'' which, in a letter to Ms. Warren, he said demonstrated that she had a larger role than she had indicated to the committee.
''It is plain that the C.F.P.B. has done more than provide 'advice' on the proposed servicing settlement,'' Mr. Bachus wrote. The letter requested that Ms. Warren consider ''if there are any aspects of that testimony related to the C.F.P.B.'s role in the mortgage servicer settlement negotiations that you wish to clarify or correct.''
The letter was co-signed by Representative Shelley Moore Capito, Republican of West Virginia and chairwoman of the subcommittee on financial institutions and consumer credit.
Jen Howard, a spokeswoman for the consumer agency, said that Ms. Warren correctly characterized her participation. ''As Elizabeth Warren testified to Congress earlier this month, the consumer bureau provided advice to various officials involved in the mortgage servicing law enforcement matter,'' Ms. Howard said in a statement. ''She is aware that not everyone agrees with that advice or how to address the serious deficiencies at some of the nation's largest mortgage servicing firms.''
Mr. Bachus, a consistent critic of both the consumer agency and Ms. Warren, filled that role again Wednesday when he addressed the Chamber of Commerce conference immediately before she spoke.
Noting that he has introduced a bill to change the governance of the consumer bureau from a single director to a five-person, bipartisan commission, he characterized the powers given to the head of the consumer agency as unmatched in government.
''They regulate all financial products and services, so if it involves a dollar changing hands, they can regulate it, or she can, because she actually has total discretion'' over consumer financial products, Mr. Bachus said. ''If George Washington came back today, or Abraham Lincoln or Warren Buffett signed up, I wouldn't give that person total discretion.''
Ms. Warren was followed by Thomas J. Donohue, president and chief executive of the chamber, who warned that the consumer agency could choke off economic growth in the United States.
''If not used carefully, the C.F.P.B.'s tremendous power to go after bad actors could cause serious collateral damage to America's job creators,'' he said.
Ms. Warren has disputed the notion that the consumer agency has unbridled power. ''There are plenty of checks in place,'' she said, including a law governing how federal agencies write and adopt new regulations. Its rules, like those of any agency, can be overturned by Congress or federal courts.
In addition, she said, the consumer bureau is ''the only bank regulator -- and perhaps the only agency anywhere in government -- whose rules can be overruled by a group of other agencies,'' specifically the Financial Stability Oversight Council, composed of nine regulatory agency heads and an independent insurance industry expert. A two-thirds vote of the council is required to overturn a consumer agency rule.
Ms. Warren also warned against making the agency subject to annual appropriations of Congress, saying it would inject politics into the regulatory structure and cause banks and other regulated agencies to lobby for looser oversight.
Regulation and competition are not, she said, mutually exclusive. ''In fact, when done right, they support each other,'' Ms. Warren said. ''Are the Chamber's members, as citizens or business owners and executives, in a better place today because the F.A.A. regulates air safety, because the states regulate insurance companies, because the federal government enforces antitrust statutes? Of course they are. And so is this country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elizabeth Warren, an Obama adviser, is in charge of setting up a consumer protection agency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TESTIMONY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); FORECLOSURE (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (84%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (58%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (94%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); SPENCER BACHUS (79%); SHELLEY MOORE CAPITO (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2011



741 of 741 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1579 words

HEADLINE: One-Way Ticket? Exploring the Great Migration in Literature and the Arts

BYLINE: ANNISSA HAMBOUZ and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Understanding the historical forces and cultural legacies of the early 20th century, when millions of African-Americans left the South for the Northeast, Midwest and West. 

 BODY:
Overview| What was the Great Migration, and what cultural movements are associated with it? How can we put current United States demographic patterns into historical context? In this lesson, students learn about the contemporary trend of "reverse migration" and then create research-based presentations on the Great Migration in association with their learning in literature, art, history or geography. 
Materials | Computers with Internet access or research materials about the Great Migration and writers and artists; copies of the Langston Hughes poem "One Way Ticket"
Warm-up | Distribute or display, or play an audio file of, the Langston Hughes poem "One Way Ticket." Read the poem as a class and ask students to share their thoughts on its historical context. Ask: In what period of time in U.S. history is this poem set? How can you tell? What were the Jim Crow laws to which the speaker refers? How does this poem help people today understand life in the South versus life in the North and West for African-Americans at that time? 
Explain that this poem is merely one example of the cultural legacy of the Great Migration, the mass migration of blacks out of the South to the Northeast, Midwest, and West in the early 20th century. His artistic contributions helped shape the Harlem Renaissance, one of the artistic and cultural movements sparked by the Great Migration.
Explain that they will now read an article about how demographics in the United States have recently reversed course, in contrast to the Great Migration.
Related | In the article "Many U.S. Blacks Moving to South, Reversing Trend," Sabrina Tavernise and Robert Gebeloff investigate the recent demographic shift in the U.S. black population, as increasing numbers of African-Americans leave Northeastern and Midwestern cities for the South:
The percentage of the nation's black population living in the South has hit its highest point in half a century, according to census data released Thursday, as younger and more educated black residents move out of declining cities in the Northeast and Midwest in search of better opportunities.
The share of black population growth that has occurred in the South over the past decade - the highest since 1910, before the Great Migration of blacks to the North - has upended some long-held assumptions.
Read the entire article with your class, using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension: 

        
What are some of the reasons why the Southern black population has hit its highest point in 50 years?
        
In what way has this population growth "upended some long-held assumptions," according to the article?
        
What was the Great Migration, and how does it relate to the current demographic shift?
        
 What are some of the reasons people interviewed for this article cite for moving to Atlanta? 
        
How does the changing population in the West compare to the North and South, according to the article?
        
How, if at all, do you think this new migration might impact the black cultural traditions of both Northern and Southern cities?
Activity | The following activity can be used to provide background for reading a work of literature or nonfiction written during or about the Great Migration, for studying the music or art of the early 20th century, to teach about that period in an American history course or to delve into the connections between geography and culture in a geography course. Please adapt the lesson, and the specific locations, artists and titles suggested below, accordingly. 
Start by revisiting Professor Clement Price's observation, quoted in the article, about the cultural implications of the demographic shift, along with Times columnist Charles M. Blow's comment about the implications for New York City in his column "Escape From New York": 
It gave voice to Shirley Chisholm, refuge to Malcolm X, legs to Althea Gibson and opportunity to Jackie Robinson. It was the incubator of the Harlem Renaissance, the proving ground of jazz and the birthplace of hip-hop.
It was a black Mecca and magnet. 
Ask: What are Mr. Price and Mr. Blow lamenting? Why do you think geography is often a key part of culture and heritage? (To facilitate personal connection to the topic, hold a brief discussion about the cultural hallmarks that they, and others, associate with their town or state. How are they part of history and a source of local pride?) 
Tell students they will be breaking into groups to research and present on the cultural legacy of the Great Migration. We have provided three broad categories below, along with associated resources and sample guiding questions. Add to, change or further subdivide the material, and assign specific topics to small groups, depending on your class size and curriculum. Pairs might, for example, be assigned to study individual cities, writers or artists.
Groups should research their assigned topic and find at least two visuals pieces like maps, charts or photographs to use in their presentations. 
Geography and History

Chicago, Detroit, New York, Cleveland and Philadelphia, among others

        
What factors drew African-Americans to these cities in the early 20th century? 
        
How does the black population of these cities (as percentage of overall population) today compare to 75 years earlier? What conclusions, if any, can you draw from this?
        
What are some of the cultural, economic, social, and political "push" and "pull" factors related to the movement of African-Americans out of the South during the Great Migration? 
        
In general, what was life like in these cities during the Great Migration?
        
What are the significant cultural legacies of the Great Migration in these cities?
Literature

Richard Wright, Zora Neale Hurston, Paul Lawrence Dunbar, James Weldon Johnson, James Baldwin, Lorraine Hansberry, Langston Hughes and other Harlem Renaissance writers, or people like August Wilson and Richard Wright who wrote about life for African-Americans during and as a result of the Great Migration.

        
What are the hallmarks and great works of these writers?
        
What are their basic life stories? Where did they live and write?
        
What are these works about?
        
Were the texts written during the Great Migration, or were they written later and set in that period? 
        
How do these writers' works convey, address and characterize the Great Migration experience? 
        
How often are these works taught in schools today? Why do you think that is?
Music and Fine Art

"The Great Migration" by Jacob Lawrence, "Slow Down Freight Train" by Rose Piper, works by Aaron Douglas, Charles Alston and others

"Times Is Getting Harder,""Freight Train Blues" by Trixie Smith, the work of Una Mae Carlisle, Ma RaineyLouis Armstrong, Bessie Smith, Duke Ellington, Josephine Baker and many others

        
What are the hallmarks and great works of these artists?
        
What are their basic life stories? Where did they live and create?
        
What contributions did they make to the cultural movements during or after the Great Migration?
        
How are they commemorated today?
Groups should represent their research by creating posters or presentations using a tool like PowerPoint, Glogster or Prezi, and then give their presentations to the class. After the presentations, discuss the connections that students see among and between them.
In a literature class, wrap up by briefly discussing the value of studying the historical and cultural context of the work you are reading. How would reading the text be a different experience for one who did knew nothing about the Great Migration and its legacies? 
Going further | In a group discussion or essay, students speculate how, if at all, they think the current "reverse migration" trend from North to South might shape black cultural and artistic movements in the future. How should the rich cultural legacy of the 20th century best be preserved? 
Students might also write modern versions of the Langston Hughes poem "One Way Ticket" to reflect the migration trends of the early 21st century.
 Standards | This lesson is correlated to McREL's national standards (it can also be aligned to the new Common Core State Standards): 
Arts and Communication
4. Understands ways in which the human experience is transmitted and reflected in the arts and communication
Historical Understanding
2. Understands the historical perspective
United States History
17. Understands massive immigration after 1870 and how new social patterns, conflicts, and ideas of national unity developed amid growing cultural diversity
29. Understands the struggle for racial and gender equality and for the extension of civil liberties
31. Understands economic, social and cultural developments in the contemporary United States
Language Arts
1. Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process
4. Gathers and uses information for research purposes
5. Uses the general skills and strategies of the reading process
7. Uses general skills and strategies to understand a variety of informational texts
Life Skills: Working with Others
1. Contributes to the overall effort of a group
4. Displays effective interpersonal communication skills
Music
7. Understands the relationship between music and history and culture
Visual Arts
3. Knows a range of subject matter, symbols and potential ideas in the visual arts
4. Understands the visual arts in relation to history and cultures

        
Oct. 18, 1968 | American Olympic Medal Winners Suspended for Black Power Salutes
        
Racial Tensions for Mixed Families
        
Stories to Tell: Curating an African-American History Exhibition
        
50 Years of Dance 'Revelations'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HISTORY (94%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); TRENDS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (76%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); VISUAL ARTS (71%); LITERARY CRITICISM (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); CENSUS (65%); CITY LIFE (62%); CITIES (62%); INTERVIEWS (60%) African-American culture; African-Americans; black history; Blacks; American History; Art as a Reflection of Society; Biographies; Civil Rights; Culture and Identity; Current Events; Fiction; Fine Arts; Geography; Historic Preservation; History of North America; Human Systems; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Literary Analysis; Literature; Maps; Music; Nonfiction; Popular Culture; Race in America; Social Sciences; Social Studies; Visual Arts; World Cultures and Traditions

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011

 
