

401 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1995

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 7; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: 3 Hospitals Talk About Forming an Affiliation

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
THREE Westchester community hospitals have begun affiliation talks to meet what their directors describe as the demands of a quickly changing health-care environment.
The changing marketplace is "unlike anything we've ever seen,"said Roger Dvorak, president of Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, which is holding the talks with the White Plains Hospital Center and the Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco. All hospitals are facing cutbacks in Medicaid and Medicare reimbursements and stricter control of expenses and procedures from managed-care groups. In particular, health-maintenance groups and other managed-care organizations are limiting admissions, hospital procedures and length of stay. They are also paying less to hospitals for their services. 
 As an example of the pressures hospitals are facing, Jon B. Schandler, president and chief executive officer at White Plains Hospital Center, said that even though admissions had increased there, the number of patient days had dropped because of managed-care requirements.
Given those kinds of economic indicators for the future, Mr. Schandler said, the three hospitals had decided "to figure it out now rather than later."
"We can see the long-term economic projections," he said.
Even though all three hospitals have a tradition of operating independently, the administrators said an alliance was needed. What form this will take has not yet been worked out, they said, but they are discussing a range of possibilities from sharing purchasing power to merging assets and integrating delivery systems. They said a full merger was unlikely.
Hospitals throughout the country are facing similar difficulties, said Arthur E. Weintraub, president of the Northern Metropolitan Hospital Association, which represents 40 hospitals from New York City to Albany.
"Hospitals of today need to reinvent themselves," he said. "In particular, the stand-alone hospital will be very rare in the health-care picture of tomorrow."
Many Westchester hospitals are facing losses, Mr. Weintraub said, and some -- like Mount Vernon Hospital and Yonkers General Hospital -- have had to lay off workers.
There have been no layoffs at White Plains Hospital Center, Lawrence Hospital and Northern Westchester Hospital Center. But Lawrence Hospital, which showed a $1.4 million profit in 1994, is projecting a "small to moderate" operating loss this year -- about $250,000 to $500,000 -- said Harriet Rosenberg, a spokeswoman. The annual operating budget at the 85-year-old hospital, which has 259 beds, is $72 million.
Half of the 14 acute-care hospitals in Westchester reported losses in 1993, the most recent year for which audited figures are available, Mr. Weintraub said.
"And no hospital," he added, "showed very significant surpluses. Where they did show a gain, it was quite modest."
The 102-year-old White Plains Hospital, which had a $94.7 million budget last year, had an operating loss of $274,000. It is projecting a $350,000 surplus for the current year.
The Northern Westchester Hospital Center, which had a $75.7 million budget last year, had a $288,283 profit. That hospital, which was founded 79 years ago, is projecting a $500,000 surplus for this year.
The idea for a partnership among the three hospitals was raised close to a year ago. Two trustees from each hospital, along with two doctors and the president and medical director from each, are meeting regularly to complete the details, they said. A target date for a formal agreement has not been set.
Lawrence Hospital already has an affiliation agreement with a group of six Westchester hospitals and another in Connecticut -- called ExcelCare System Inc. -- to negotiate managed-care agreements.
The two others are in a group with St. John's Riverside Hospital in Yonkers, New Rochelle Hospital and Putnam Hospital -- called the Westchester Health Services Network -- to negotiate managed-care contracts.
The administrators said they did not know if they would continue those alliances once the other partnership is completed.
"All that we know for sure," said Donald W. Davis, president and chief executive officer of the Northern Westchester Hospital Center, "is that the world out there is changing and hospitals have to change with it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE HOSPITAL (BRONXVILLE); WHITE PLAINS HOSPITAL CENTER; NORTHERN WESTCHESTER HOSPITAL CENTER LAWRENCE HOSPITAL (74%); MEDICARE (57%); MEDICAID (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LAWRENCE HOSPITAL (BRONXVILLE); WHITE PLAINS HOSPITAL CENTER; NORTHERN WESTCHESTER HOSPITAL CENTER MEDICARE (57%); MEDICAID (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; HOSPITALS HOSPITALS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); COMPANY LOSSES (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ACUTE CARE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MEDICARE (71%); MERGERS (70%); MEDICAID (58%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (53%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA ARTHUR E WEINTRAUB (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1995



402 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BEDFORD - STUYVESANT;
400 Jobless as Bakery Closes

BYLINE: By DAVIDSON GOLDIN 

 BODY:
The Pechter family entered the business in 1888. The Field family did the same in 1928. Their companies merged in 1973, becoming Pechter Field's Bakery -- the largest independent bakery in the metropolitan area.
But diminishing prices for baked goods, high labor costs and greater competition took their toll over the last few years. In January, Pechter Field's filed for bankruptcy. Still, the bakery's 400 workers reported to work each day, hoping that a competitor would buy the bakery, or at least salvage some jobs by purchasing profitable delivery routes. 
 On Thursday, their hope turned to despair when a bankruptcy judge ordered Pechter Field's permanently closed and its assets sold to pay off $20 million in debt. Two competitors had considered -- and rejected -- buying part of the bakery.
As the 400 newly unemployed workers began worrying over their future, the management blamed several factors for the company's demise, chiefly the cost of maintaining an antiquated five-story factory at 800 Pacific Street and growing competition from out-of-state bakeries with lower production costs.
A few decades ago, there were a dozen independent bakeries like Pechter Field's in the city. They catered to restaurants, prisons, schools, hospitals and hotels. Now, the only one remaining is Fink Baking in Long Island City, Queens.
"After being in the business for 50 years, it's hard to believe we used to be the largest independent baker in the New York area and now this is happening," said Harold Field, 66, Pechter Field's former president. "We were the only full-line baker in the area, making everything -- breads, rolls, pies, cakes, danishes and muffins."
Mr. Field said that as recently as 1989, business was good, with $51 million in gross annual revenue. Last year, that figure was $41 million. This summer, he said, Pechter Field's lost a $12 million contract with the city's Board of Education.
On Thursday, as security guards sealed off the white and green factory on the edge of the Long Island Rail Road yard, workers wondered what they would do next.
"It's like a lost feeling -- you don't know where your next paycheck's coming from," said Nick Jones, 57, a production manager for the last two years.
Theodore Young, 58, who has spent 14 of his 32 years in the baking business at Pechter Field's, said, "I have to make a living someplace, but I guess in another line of work since bakeries are dying out."
Jimmie Jeffries, 62, said his biggest concern was for the younger workers. "They have families, they have mortgages -- not me," he said. "My babies are 34 years of age and have their own houses."
Pechter Field's former customers, who said they could always rely on prompt and courteous service, wondered how they would replace their supplier. "They're always there for us," said Hasting Stainord, a manager at Junior's Restaurant on Flatbush Avenue. "I don't know how we're going to find someone else who could do the same."
 DAVIDSON GOLDIN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold Field (right) is among 400 losing jobs at Pechter Field's bakery. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PECHTER FIELD'S BAKERY LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (52%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PECHTER FIELD'S BAKERY LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BAKERIES AND BAKED PRODUCTS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS BAKERIES (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RETAIL BAKERIES (90%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (89%); BAKED GOODS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); FAMILY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); CHILDREN (70%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); RESTAURANTS (65%); 

PERSON: GOLDIN, DAVIDSON HAROLD FIELD (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1995



403 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 15; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Where Did She Go Wrong?

BYLINE: By Alan Ryan; Alan Ryan, who has been a professor of politics at Princeton University since 1978, will be returning to Oxford next year. His latest book is "John Dewey: And the High Tide of American Liberalism."

 BODY:

THE DISENCHANTED ISLE
Mrs. Thatcher's Capitalist Revolution.
By Charles Dellheim.
416 pp. New York:
W.W. Norton & Company.
$25. 
IN "The Disenchanted Isle," Charles Dellheim provides a brisk and brightly written account of the rise and fall of Margaret Thatcher, and paints a plausible picture of her subjects' reactions to her reign. By way of background, he presents a clear and sensible account of the years of failing industrial performance and labor unrest that led up to Mrs. Thatcher's triumph in 1979. He then retells the tale of Margaret Hilda Roberts's ascent from her father's grocery shop in Grantham to the Prime Minister's residence at No. 10 Downing Street, gives us a string of vignettes of her impact on politics, industry, academia and the social climate generally, and ends with a rousing account of her downfall. Mr. Dellheim breaks no new ground, but he comes at a good moment to provoke fresh thoughts.
The rise and fall of Mrs. Thatcher perhaps has a moral for us all. Here in the United States the Gingrich revolution is in full flood: public hostility to government spending on welfare and services for the poor is unabated, and a get-tough approach to crime has lost none of its appeal; privatization is all the rage among economists; a return to Victorian values is widely advocated by conservative intellectuals. These were just the attitudes and ideas that fueled Mrs. Thatcher's revolution, but today her Conservative Party trails the Labor opposition, led by Tony Blair, by close to 30 points in every opinion poll. So desperate is the Conservative plight that Mr. Blair's well-wishers are giving him advice on how to hold onto power in the next millennium rather than on how to win the general election that must be held sometime within the next two years.
"The Disenchanted Isle" doesn't invoke comparisons between Margaret Thatcher and Newt Gingrich, but Mr. Dellheim's portrait of his flawed heroine irresistibly suggests them. Mr. Gingrich and Mrs. Thatcher conquered their respective parties in similar ways. He fought a war to the death against the Democratic leadership in Congress, while she seized the leadership of the Tory party in 1975 because she was prepared to stand against Edward Heath when senior (male) figures would not. Both went on to overawe their critics by winning electoral majorities for policies their conservative predecessors had thought were too extreme and divisive to present to the voters.
But Mr. Gingrich might find Mrs. Thatcher's example depressing. We now know that her 11 1/2 years as Prime Minister did not permanently alter British political culture, did not produce a once-and-for-all leap forward in industrial productivity and did not destroy the Labor Party, even though, as Mr. Dellheim says, she surely put paid to the far left. Those years did, on the other hand, see a considerable increase in inequality: the poorest tenth of the population lost ground in the 1980's and the richest tenth saw their incomes rise by 65 percent; trade union membership was halved, and new industrial-relations legislation removed much of the power that remained to the shrunken unions.
Britain also had her own version of the culture wars of the American 80's. They were fought not between the defenders and opponents of gay rights or abortion, however, but between the admirers of Mrs. Thatcher's creed of laissez-faire at home and nationalism abroad on the one side and the beleaguered defenders of the postwar British welfare state on the other. Mr. Gingrich might reasonably be depressed at the inconclusiveness of the struggle in this arena, too.
Mr. Dellheim teaches history at Arizona State University, but he has devoted much of the past 20 years to studying British social and economic history, and his long list of those who have helped him suggests that he must have spent a lot of those 20 years in the drawing rooms of people close to, if not always in tune with, the Thatcher upheaval. They range from Conservative cabinet members like Sir Geoffrey Howe and Nigel Lawson to captains of industry like Sir John Harvey-Jones of Imperial Chemical Industries (I.C.I.), religious leaders like Rabbi Julia Neuberger, and on to the leader of the Labor Party, John Smith, who died last year.
One engaging result is that whatever Mr. Dellheim's account of the British industrial revolution of the 80's may lack in depth, it more than makes up for in liveliness. His account of Sir John Harvey-Jones's renovation of I.C.I. is couched in the authentic naval idiom of this former submarine commander, while the none-too-dulcet tones of Sir John Egan, who masterminded Jaguar Cars' ascent from nationalized near-bankruptcy to privatized profitability (and eventual sale to the Ford Motor Company), ring out loud and clear.
Nor is Mr. Dellheim without a sense of the ironies of the scene he describes. John Harvey-Jones was a supporter of the Social Democratic Party, and rescued I.C.I. by sharing power rather than hogging it. "Great believer in personal enterprise that he was, he was not a market mystic who believed that those who fell on the wayside should simply be left there to read Milton Friedman." John Egan was a fierce Thatcherite who loathed trade unions and thought the Labor Party's industrial policies were pure poison, but he still "dispatched a team of Jaguar observers to Japan to see what Coventry could learn from Kyoto," and he instituted Family Nights, when management served dinner to shop floor workers and their wives. Not exactly Iron Lady tactics.
INDEED, the moral of the entire book might well be that Mrs. Thatcher was her revolution's worst enemy. By 1979, the British were persuaded that much of what she stood for was right -- overmanning had to go, higher education had to think about its graduates' entrepreneurial and business skills, trade unions had to be stopped from damaging their members as well as everyone else by endless obstructiveness. But her headlong assaults on people who might have been wooed into cooperation and her relentless betrayal of all her political allies meant that she accomplished less than she might have, and that what she did accomplish was bought at too high a price.
Perhaps more than anything else, she persuaded people that she was simply callous. Socialism had been inefficient but inspiring, yet Mrs. Thatcher failed to make efficiency attractive. "Not only did she weaken the moral foundation of the capitalist revolution by favoring the rich over the poor," Mr. Dellheim concludes, but she "undermined its legitimacy and appeal by an indifferent or meanspirited attitude to those who could not help themselves." Revolutionaries take note.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DISENCHANTED ISLE, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: ICI (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); LITERATURE (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PRIVATIZATION (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); MILLENNIUM (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%); 

PERSON: RYAN, ALAN; DELLHEIM, CHARLES; THATCHER, MARGARET H (LADY) NEWT GINGRICH (77%); TONY BLAIR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1995



404 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1995

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2009 words

HEADLINE: CHOICE TABLES;
Where Provincetown Fare Takes a Lively Turn

BYLINE: BY MOLLY O'NEILL; MOLLY O'NEILL is a reporter in the style department of The Times and the author of "A Well Seasoned Appetite" (Viking).

 BODY:
PROVINCETOWN, the gangly spit of sand that sweeps away from Cape Cod Bay to form a spine of dunes that flank the Atlantic on the town's back side, is a fragile land. It is vulnerable to and constantly reshaped by tide and wind. Were it not for the rocky, man-built breakwaters, waves would regularly gobble whole neighborhoods. And if the dunes were not planted with beach grass, the dunes themselves would slide back and forth, from ocean to bay, burying both the hurly-burly and the echo of a fishing industry that are Provincetown.
It's always been this way. Historians, poets and writers have long speculated that the hazards of the landscape forced people to live by their wits, to be aware of danger, appreciative of pleasure -- particularly the pleasure of a good meal. 
 Home diaries and shopping lists I've seen from the 18th and 19th centuries show that the buttoned-down bland style of cooking of the rest of New England never took in Provincetown. Instead, the town developed a lusty fare whose inspiration was the Latin flavors of the French and Portuguese fishermen who settled there. The climate called for hearty meals. The waters were rich. The only thing standing between a cook and a fine meal was ingenuity. And the sort of people who are passionate about Provincetown tend to be ingenious.
Today, of course, truck drivers unloading cases of institutional food supplies ceaselessly stop traffic along Commercial Street. Fast-food joints are the constant that artists' easels once were. This is not to say that you can't eat well in Provincetown. You can eat very, very well. If you try.
Until recently, a good meal was a given. But in the past decade, as the crowds of day trippers who arrive daily has increased by about 20 percent, the median quality of the cooking has declined from universally excellent to a hit-and-miss affair in which some meals are surprisingly superb.
As the T-shirt by a local artist, Susan Baker, says, the tip of Cape Cod still considers itself "The Town Too Good For Burger King." But while there are no national food franchises, the smell of fryolators and greasy grills hangs over the place as certainly as the smell of beach roses and brine.
Two of the new fast-food places, as a matter of fact, are excellent. Silva's Seafood Connection, situated in a former Dairy Queen (and still called Dairy Land by the locals who pack the place at lunch), serves the best fried scallops, clams and squid in town, each barely floured and exquisitely fresh. Its lobster roll is a thing of sweet, sumptuous beauty.
Clem and Joe's Rotisserie Chicken and Ribs, about 100 paces from the bay beach in the center of town, serves not a shred of seafood, nor any food faintly Yankee. Instead, there is a fine grilled chicken and smoky ribs, as well as spicy pulled chicken and shredded pork, Southern-style stewed vegetables, slaw, cornbread and mashed potatoes -- all cooked well enough to make a Southern Grandma cry. A meal that bends a sturdy paper plate costs $4.95 and curiously hits the spot in the cool evening, with its frequent fog. There are a five tables on the porch outside the storefront, but most people order food to go, or have it delivered.
For nearly 25 years, the co-owner, Clem Silva, was a chef in some of Provincetown's fine restaurants. Cash and carry is a departure. "That's what's happening here, that's what people want," he says and his menu, he thinks, isn't so far removed from the Sunday-style dinners that were served in the boarding houses that crowded the town when he was a boy.
Whatever the genesis of his Southern-style food, it is the rare local person who does not stop by to pick up dinner once a week. And following local people is not a bad practice.
The residents, as distinct from a summer colony that, according to the Provincetown Chamber of Commerce, bloats the full-time population from 3,500 to more than 17,000, tend to live by daring, luck and chance. Just as the land itself constantly shifts, the veneer of the prototypical Provincetowner changes.
But no matter how drastically the landscape is altered, the town is more like itself than it is like any place else in the world, and the people -- summer and permanent -- who are passionate about the place today are more like the people who loved it 50 years ago than those who find it a crowded and insufferable honky-tonk.
Those lured by Provincetown are intrigued by the new, often artistic, always eager. Their eagerness for well-prepared, innovative meals has been frustrated in the past five years. A shaky local economy curtailed creativity and bred a sort of culinary conservatism. But three restaurants, two new, one of long standing with a new chef, seem to have shrugged off these shackles and kicked up their heels.
The Cafe Edwige, upstairs and across from the Public Library, has meant breakfast in Provincetown for more than 20 years. The loft-style dining room, with hand-hewn wooden booths and tables, elevated the hippy esthetic, with its look, its morning fare -- fresh orange juice, croissants, mile-high omelets and whole-wheat pancakes dense with fresh fruit -- and its waitresses, who regularly stopped taking orders to line dance to "Stand by Your Man."
Dinner, on the other hand, was a dreary, stir-fry-and-tofu affair until last year when Steven J. Frappolli, who formerly cooked at An American Place in Manhattan, began turning out stylish New American cooking. The gestalt of the place is still casual, but the food is quite good.
Of the appetizers sampled, a dish of clams, mussels, lobster and shrimp in a bouillabaisse-like broth was delicious, as were the skewers of grilled chicken and pork that were served over cellophane noodles with a minced peanut and fresh cilantro relish. However, peppered, sliced tuna over a Caesar salad with crisped noodles and roasted tomatoes was a muddle of flavors. And using local, shredded crabmeat, rather than the lump crabmeat taken most often from Pacific waters, makes for a mushy hash of a crabcake.
Planked codfish drizzled with a ginger-scented carrot broth and served with roasted corn and shiitake mushrooms was a delicious main course, and so was the ragout of lobster and scallops that came over ragsheet pasta with wild mushrooms and a tomato-lobster broth. A roasted pepper juice didn't stand up to the strong herbs in which the chicken was marinated, but the chicken, served with mushroomed-mashed potatoes, was good. So was the grilled swordfish with oven-dried tomato relish accompanied by a salad of peppery local greens and grilled vegetables.
The breakfast camp -- and the throng it beckons -- gives way to Pachelbel and a mellow crowd most nights.
The thought behind the fare at the Martin House on the Atlantic Street landing -- local ingredients prepared with international seasoning -- is similar to that of the Cafe Edwige. But its execution is more elaborate. Alex Mazzocca, the chef, appears to be the first in town to have figured out that Japanese wasabi and pickled ginger make an addictive foil for Wellfleet oysters and that the local squid is toothsome when grilled and served over cellophane noodles with a spicy relish of minced cucumbers and carrots. Mussels and littleneck clams were slightly bitter from the preserved lemon and garlic they were steamed in, but the steamed Chinese buns -- dough stuffed with black beans and watercress -- were fabulous.
The main courses read like a travel guide to the Middle and Far East and sounded ominously complex. But the spinach, feta and grilled eggplant tart wrapped in a flaky walnut envelope was tasty and a simple lobster and sugar snap pea saute was a delicious foil for gingered buckwheat noodles. While it was too sweet for my taste, the rack of lamb with spicy sausage drizzled with garlicky meat juice and served with dried apricot relish was good. Only the halibut, served under a crust of roasted plantains with a passion-fruit vinaigrette and a salad of undercooked black-eyed peas, was over-wrought and under-flavored.
The restaurant is situated in three snug rooms of a house dating to 1740 that has been restored in a Yankee arts and craft style; there is also a garden where you can dine. The wait between courses was interminable, but Martin House is one of the few restaurants in Provincetown today with a service staff that appears to care.
According to local restaurateurs, the skyrocketing price of real estate has made it difficult to find well-seasoned waiters and waitresses.
"One of the reasons I chose the to-go model," said Mr. Silva of Clem and Joe's, "is because you can only get local high school kids to wait tables. People who pay their own rent can't afford to."
The Dancing Lobster, a coral-pink shack on Fisherman's Wharf, is, to my taste, the best new restaurant in Provincetown. Even so, the cadre of experienced waiters can't quite keep up with the crowds who wait for up to 90 minutes for one of the 20 tables. Reservations are not accepted.
The owner, Nils Berg, called Pepe locally, honed his craft at his family's restaurant in town, Pepe's Wharf, as well as at Harry Cipriani in Manhattan and Harry's Bar in Venice. He is a superb cook, and his simple, direct Italian cooking brings out the best in local ingredients.
A light, lemon vinaigrette, for instance, transforms shrimp, squid and lobster into a delectably clean-tasting starter. Local mussels remain sweet and plump steamed in a spicy sauce of red and black pepper. The saffron-based fish soup, prepared from a Venetian recipe, is a dream. Salads, ranging from a mound of mescal tossed with feta cheese, cucumbers and tomatoes, a decent Caesar salad and a tumble of radicchio, arugula and fennel with goat cheese, could make a sprightly meal.
But then you would miss the crab ravioli or the linguini with squid and spicy tomato sauce, or the penne with shrimp, squid, mussels and clams in a tomato broth that, like the eight other pasta dishes offered, are flavorful and perfectly prepared. Fish is also a strong suit. Mussels steamed in garlic with a garlic and basil aioli, a shellfish melange steamed with white beans and wine sauce, and salmon grilled with artichoke hearts lead the pack.
The Dancing Lobster celebrates local ingredients, pays homage to the Latin flavors that have always permeated Provincetown cooking, and has a simple, contagious joy about it. The windows offer a panorama of the curving natural harbor and they were front-row seats last month for the re-enactment in a copy of the Mayflower of the Pilgrims' first landing in Provincetown in 1620.
The crook of land at the tip of Cape Cod is a hardscrabble place, suited to those who can sense a dangerous shift in the wind, as well as appreciate its geography and lusty spirit. The Puritans did not like the town too good for Burger King. They may have recognized it as a place that would always resist regimentation. They may have sensed the danger of joy. After just six months they lit out for Plymouth, presumably choosing the predictability of bedrock over the feel of Provincetown sand in their shoes.
 
 
 
Bill of fare
 The hours given are for summer and will be curtailed in September.
Clem & Joe's Rotisserie Chicken and Ribs, 338 Commercial Street, (508) 487-8303, open daily from noon to 9 P.M. Full meal $4.95.
Silva's Seafood Connection, 175 Bradford Street, (508) 487-1574, open daily 11:30 A.M. to 10 P.M. Seafood platter $9.95; scallop dinner $8.95.
Cafe Edwige, 333 Commercial Street, (508) 487-2008, open daily from 8 A.M. to 1 A.M.
Dinner, from 6 P.M., is about $25 a person on average, not including drinks. Credit cards accepted.
The Martin House, 157 Commercial Street, (508) 487-1327, dinner from 6 to 11 P.M.; Sunday afternoon tea ($6.95) in garden, 3 to 5:30. Dinner is about $35 a person, with a drink. Credit cards accepted.
The Dancing Lobster, 9 Ryder Street Extension (Fisherman's Wharf), (508) 487-0900, from 5:30 to 11 P.M. daily.
Dinner about $25, including a drink. Reservations not accepted.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The 20-table Dancing Lobster overlooks the harbor. Cafe Edwige's Steven J. Frappolli, with local lobster and scallops. (Photographs by Stephen Rose for The New York Times)(pg. 6); Silva's on Bradford Street is one of the best fast-seafood places. (Stephen Rose for The New York Times)(pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: INDQ (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5046 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: PROVINCETOWN (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DAIRY QUEEN INC (51%); POETS & WRITERS (57%); POETS & WRITERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: POETS & WRITERS (57%); POETS & WRITERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVINCETOWN (MASS); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); PROVINCETOWN (92%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; REVIEWS; NYTRAVEL FAST FOOD (89%); FINFISH FISHING (78%); SHELLFISH FISHING (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); HISTORY (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); FRANCHISING (64%); FOOD CHARITIES (64%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); 

PERSON: O'NEILL, MOLLY CLEM SILVA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1995



405 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Upjohn and Pharmacia Plan $13 Billion Merger
In the latest giant merger of drug makers, Upjohn and Pharmacia of Sweden said they would combine in a $13 billion stock deal, creating the world's ninth-largest pharmaceuticals concern.
In contrast with other recent mergers in the industry, the deal, which would create a company with $6.8 billion in annual sales, is a friendly one. But like the others, it will result in fewer jobs. [Page A1.]
 
Bank Industry's Consolidation Is Shifting Into a Higher Gear
The consolidation in the nation's banking industry is accelerating, with 5 mergers among the top 50 banks so far this year.
While industry executives say the deals are creating stronger institutions, the short-term effect will be more corporate name changes, branch closings and job losses. [A1.]
 
The Competitor as Cover Boy
John F. Kennedy Jr. and his new magazine, George, are getting much attention on the covers of other publications. The spectacle of Mr. Kennedy's joining the media horde he has spent his life avoiding has been too much to pass up. Magazines. [D5.]
 
Advanced-TV Plan in Britain
Within two years, the British Government wants to adopt technology for high-definition television. If it succeeds, Britain could become a test market for the next generation of television. [D4.]
 
The Foundation Behind the Book
Private foundations have long bankrolled books they view as important. But many publishers say economics and a desire to see a field covered -- not politics -- are the motives behind most foundation support. [D5.]
 
Wood Siding Under Attack
Siding made by Louisiana-Pacific is doomed to failure in wet weather, leaving homes rotting away across North America, The Oregonian of Portland reported after an investigation. Louisiana-Pacific defended its Inner-Seal wood siding and said that 99 percent of the houses with it do not have any problems. [A9.]
 
Protection for Patent Holders
In a surprising ruling, the nation's highest patent court has potentially strengthened the power of patent holders. The court bolstered a principle known as the doctrine of equivalents, which is meant to protect inventors from poachers who appropriate the essence of a patent without trespassing its literal borders. [D2.]
 
Who's on Line, Anyhow?
As they consider the use of advertising on the Internet, companies are awaiting a Nielsen study on the demographics of on-line users. Denise Caruso: Digital Commerce. [D3.]
 
Custom Textbooks on Demand
Digital printing is giving professors a way to customize the textbooks they use in their classes, and to make quick changes in them from semester to semester. [D3.]
 
A New I.B.M.-Microsoft Dispute
Simmering hostility between I.B.M. and its former partner, Microsoft, has burst into the open. I.B.M. said that Microsoft had put pressure on trade-show organizers to remove an I.B.M. executive from the program. [D7.]
 
For a Magazine, The Start of Act 2
The reincarnated Mirabella magazine, which reaches newsstands next week, still sees itself as a fashion magazine that isn't really a fashion magazine. But Hachette Filipacchi Magazines, the new owner, says the previous version faced problems that will not exist this time. [D5.]
 
Gay Services From Planet Out
Planet Out, a new electronic media company, wants to become the "gay global village" of cyberspace. It will make its debut on the Microsoft Network later this week. [D3.]
 
Windows 95, the Tour
In a high-tech traveling show, an 18-wheeler truck will visit 75 cities, offering demonstrations of Microsoft's Windows 95. Microsoft is not a sponsor. Advertising. [D7.]

GRAPHIC: Table: "LAST WEEK"

Dow industrials	4,617.60	-0.70	30-yr. Treasury yield	6.90%	-0.07	The dollar	97.61 yen	+0.73	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: PHARMACIA CORP (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); UPJOHN&PHARMACIA OF SWEDEN (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: UPJOHN&PHARMACIA OF SWEDEN (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MERGERS (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); PATENTS (89%); TEXTBOOKS (87%); PATENT LAW (85%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); TEST MARKETING (70%); CLOSINGS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (60%); TRADE SHOWS (50%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY JR (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



406 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: For Clinton and Family, a Vacation Of Golf, Hiking and Breathless Views

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: JACKSON, Wyo., Aug. 20

 BODY:
"I wish," the President of the United States said today, "we all had a moose."
Bill Clinton may not have a moose, but here in the late summer splendors of the Tetons, he is surrounded by plenty of them -- and not just the stuffed, stick-figure variety straddled by a 3-year-old tourist named Kelsey Scott, who prompted his whimsical musing on a lakeside hike today. 
 Indeed, Mr. Clinton lacks almost nothing on this vacation, and the mood so far is decidedly loose. After four days on lush valley fairways, the First Golfer is at 91 holes and counting. He has at least two heaping helpings of barbecued beef shortribs under his belt, a couple of good walks under his boots, and on Saturday night he stopped for a free cup of 49th birthday lemonade from a neighborhood stand before attending a "surprise party" that was the worst-kept secret in town.
He has run the gamut of low-key recreation, from Indiana Jones (the actor Harrison Ford, who held a small dinner for the President at his big ranch here on Thursday night) to Robert Trent Jones (the legendary golf architect whose breathtaking Jackson Hole Golf and Tennis Club course Mr. Clinton has played twice).
"It's wonderful," Mr. Clinton said as he and his wife, Hillary, and their daughter, Chelsea, took an hourlong walk around Jenny Lake in Grand Teton National Park this afternoon, with Mrs. Clinton setting a brisk pace in the lead. "It's a great thing for our country to have something like this. Fabulous."
Asked if hiking was harder now that he was starting his 50th year, Mr. Clinton looked over his shoulder at the reporters following him, laughed and said, "Yeah!" before reaching ahead to Mrs. Clinton's shoulder and letting her lead him along.
Mr. Clinton is staying here in the valley home of Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th of West Virginia. He celebrated the end of his 40's at a party for 60 people at the nearby home of James D. Wolfensohn, the financier who is president of the World Bank. The guests included former Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen and his wife, B. A., Senator Alan Simpson of Wyoming, the lawyer Gerry Spence, and Mr. Rockefeller's uncle and aunt, Laurance and Mary French Rockefeller, whose ranch is in the park here.
"The President is having a wonderful time," said the traveling White House spokeswoman, Ginny Terzano. "He was as surprised as one can be after having the surprise party reported on as much as it was in the national and local press, but he was not any less gratified by the gesture."
Indeed, Mr. Clinton's enthusiasm for the wonders at his doorstep seems boundless, and catching. As the First Family stopped to gaze at the Teton range before having lunch in the rustic elegance of the Jenny Lake Lodge today, the President made it clear that he had mountains on his mind.
"You want to go tomorrow?" he asked Chelsea after Linda Oloson, their park ranger guide, suggested a hike on the Cascade Canyon trail, which skirts the 13,770-foot Grand Teton, the highest of the dramatic peaks that French explorers named for their breastlike configurations. Chelsea slapped the President a high-five in return, but Mrs. Clinton reminded them: "No, you can't do it tomorrow. You have your last golf game tomorrow."
Could the President really plan just one more day of golf with 10 days remaining here?
"Well, that's the plan," Mrs. Clinton said with a smile and shrug. "I'm not going to hold him to it, but that's the plan."
In fact, Mr. Clinton has packed in round after round of golf since arriving here last Tuesday, abetted by flown-in partners including his deputy chief of staff, Erskine B. Bowles. Mrs. Clinton has worked on her forthcoming book on child-rearing, "It Takes a Village," while waiting for Chelsea to arrive on Friday from a camping trip in Alaska. But now, aides said, the First Family is determined to enjoy the tens of thousands of acres of wilderness that stretch from here to the Montana border, and to make a few points about the need to protect the environment from Republican budget cuts to boot.
Today, in Rockport hiking boots, blue jeans and a navy blue pullover, Mr. Clinton bought a $25 "Golden Eagle" passport that allows him entry into any national park in the country for a year, and later in the week the Clintons plan more expeditions here and in Yellowstone National Park to the north.
Before their walk, they attended church services in their hiking clothes this morning in the tiny log Chapel of the Transfiguration in the Snake River valley, where a picture window behind the altar perfectly frames a view of the range.
The Episcopal pastor, the Rev. Franklin Johnson, told the parishioners, "This is a Sunday just like any other Sunday," but he acknowledged that they were singing "Amazing Grace" because it was one of the President's favorite hymns, and the service ended with a rendition of "Happy Birthday."
The First Family's hike did not stop other visitors from trooping through the park, but conditions were not exactly typical. They had a heavy Secret Service escort, with other agents stationed in the woods to the side of the trail, supplemented by mounted National Park rangers, and trailed by reporters and photographers.
Mort Engelberg, the Hollywood producer of movies like "Smokey and the Bandit" who choreographed the Clinton-Gore bus tours of 1992 and is omnipresent at the Clintons' side here, could not resist a moment of slightly exaggerated exultation.
"I see this," he told a reporter as the party moved through a lakeside stand of lodgepole pine, "as a forest trail, lined by thousands of well-wishers, shouting encouragement."

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Chelsea Clinton, Park Ranger Linda Oloson, Hillary Rodham Clinton, President Clinton and Chelsea's friend Rebecca Kolsky on a vacation tour yesterday at the Grand Teton National Park.; President Clinton's 49th birthday cake showed the President playing golf and the Teton Mountains in the background. It served 60. (Photographs by Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WYOMING, USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION GOLF (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HIKING (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (76%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PURDUM, TODD S BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (64%); HARRISON FORD (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



407 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Press Fad, or Future, in Minneapolis?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON 

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS

 BODY:
Joel R. Kramer, the publisher of The Minneapolis Star Tribune, would like to answer his critics. He says he is shaking up journalistic traditions to save big-city newspapers from extinction.
And Mr. Kramer has plenty of critics to answer. The paper, where he was once editor, has a long tradition of solid journalism. But with Mr. Kramer as publisher since 1992, it has also become perhaps the most ridiculed newspaper in the country, described by critics inside the paper and out as a headquarters of political correctness and New Age journalism jargon. 
 The Star Tribune has dived into just about every experiment being tried by any newspaper, anywhere. The paper is dividing its reporters into teams; trying "employee empowerment" techniques to get journalists involved in decision making; using focus groups to measure what readers want; experimenting with "interactivity," and redesigning the paper to be more reader-friendly.
"I'm not sure there's a current journalism fad that our managers have not embraced," said Robert Franklin, a longtime reporter and a former city and state editor.
The Star Tribune, which is owned by the Cowles Media Company, is financially healthy and has a steady circulation. Nonetheless, the paper is in the process of reorganizing just about everything in sight, from its corporate and newsroom structures to the look of its pages.
Mr. Kramer has said he is searching for new solutions to the problems that are threatening dailies across the country. In the process he has, in effect, opened a debate inside The Star Tribune over how America's midsize newspapers are to cope with such challenges as declining readership and shrinking advertising.
"My No. 1 goal is to keep the institution of metropolitan journalism healthy and financially viable so it can continue to be done," he said.
Mr. Kramer's moves to improve service to what he calls the paper's "reader-customers" have brought skewerings from national writers, local critics and many of the paper's own staff members. The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post have poked fun at the changes, especially the cultish new titles given to nearly everyone in authority. (Yes, the managing editor is now the news leader and there really is a newsroom director of player personnel and a leader of strategic integration.)
Mr. Kramer has also broken down the traditional wall in journalism between newspapers' business and news staffs, giving his top editor bottom-line responsibility for the paper's revenue from readers, including circulation. "The people responsible for news should also be responsible for success with readers," he said.
In a savage critique, an alternative paper here, The Twin Cities Reader, recently parodied The Star Tribune's message. "We're so terrified of losing subscribers, we're willing to try anything," said one invented memo The Reader asserted could have been written by Tim J. McGuire, the Star Tribune's editor, who now has the added title of general manager of the reader-customer unit.
Among the management's other changes has been a ban on the use of what it says are offensive American Indian nicknames like Redskins in sports articles; working to increase cooperation between the news and business staffs; inventing new publications like one aimed at real estate brokers, and giving reporters new assignments to meet what are said to be the interests of readers.
At a time of closings, layoffs and consolidations in the newspaper industry, Mr. Kramer and his supporters at the paper say print journalists need to keep doing the best of their traditional work, like investigative reporting. But they say journalists also need to be flexible enough to try new ways of doing their jobs.
Being the butt of jokes and the object of derision, they say, may be the price of confronting the threats to the entire newspaper industry. "There's trouble out here in River City," Mr. McGuire said, "and we as an industry are trying to forge a future. We here are trying to take hold of that future, rather than having it take hold of us."
Many journalists, Mr. McGuire said, naively insist that they do not want to worry about whether readers want their journalism. "The only way we're going to be independent and strong is if we understand we've got to make some money," Mr. McGuire said. "That's how this works. That ideological purity is not going to work any more."
But some critics at the paper say the frenzy for change and the focus on internal organizational issues have made The Star Tribune wander too far from simply gathering the news and printing it. "Just as politicians are being led by polls, we're being led by focus groups and market research," said Mike Meyers, an economics writer at the paper.
Joe Rigert, an investigative reporter and a former city editor, said repeated meetings about collaboration and the team approach had distracted reporters. "I don't get it," he said. "I don't understand how this is going to serve readers. You serve readers when you've got reporters out in the field talking to people."
Mr. Rigert and some other critics say one of the main functions of journalism is to inform readers, even if that sometimes means annoying or offending them.
But there are some at the paper who say the grumbling is just obstructionism. Susie Eaton Hopper, the features coordinating editor, said she often encountered resistance when she tried to get reporters, photographers, graphic artists and editors to collaborate.
She said the changes were healthy because they forced journalists to focus together on how to better serve readers.
The Star Tribune has had operating profit margins of more than 18 percent for the last three years, several percentage points higher than averages at some similar newspapers.
It is also relatively stable in circulation, despite some sharp price increases at newsstands and for home delivery. For the six-month period that ended in March, average daily circulation was 404,757, down about 7,700 from the corresponding period a year earlier, while Sunday circulation was about the same, at 695,548.
Mr. Kramer said he was sick of "crepe hangers" who proclaim the death of the newspaper business. And he said newspaper publishing could still be a growth business if it gave up journalistic inhibitions while remaining protective of its integrity.
He said, for example, that through all the changes at The Star Tribune he had insisted that business executives be forbidden to discuss news judgments with editors or how advertisers react to news coverage affecting their interests.
But, Mr. Kramer said, journalists are too quick to assume there is something impure about trying to give readers what they want.
"Don't assume that appealing to your readers means pandering," Mr. Kramer said. "A lot of them want good journalism."
Journalists, he said, are often too quick to insist that the problems of newspapers are not their responsibility.
"Some people will say, 'It's the readers,' " he said. "I just don't buy that. I say it's our problem. I believe in the public service of what we do, but if we can't get readers to care, what do we accomplish?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joel R. Kramer, left, and Tim J. McGuire in the newsroom of The Minneapolis Star Tribune. Mr. Kramer is the publisher of the newspaper. Mr. McGuire has two titles: editor and general manager of the reader-customer unit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (93%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MINNEAPOLIS STAR TRIBUNE COWLES MEDIA CO (68%); WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: MINNEAPOLIS STAR TRIBUNE

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS (MINN); UNITED STATES (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (93%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (89%); CITIES (77%); FOCUS GROUPS (69%); 

PERSON: GLABERSON, WILLIAM; KRAMER, JOEL R JOEL R KRAMER (92%); TIM J MCGUIRE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



408 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: WAVE OF MERGERS IS TRANSFORMING AMERICAN BANKING

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
Long pillars of their communities, the nation's banks are merging with each other, moving their headquarters across the country and leaving in their wake disruption, layoffs and potentially higher costs for customers.
The consolidation is now at cruising speed -- with 5 mergers among the top 50 banks this year -- and the pace is expected to accelerate. And while industry executives say the mergers are creating stronger institutions, big enough to offer innovative services, the practical effect in the short term will be to confront bank customers and employees with corporate name changes, branch closings and job losses. 
 Indeed, between the rising incidence of mergers and the increasing use of technology, a study by Deloitte & Touche predicted that over the next 10 years half of the nation's 59,000 bank branches will close and 450,000 of the 2.8 million jobs in the banking industry will disappear.
What is more, the deals in the current wave often combine banks in different states and even different regions. That means a bank headquarters, with the employment and community support that it entails, is uprooted.
Unlike the media magnates buying television networks and movie studios in hopes of profiting from the exploding entertainment industry, bankers are merging to survive in a business that is rapidly losing its share to rivals like the Fidelity family of mutual funds and the AT&T Corporation's credit cards.
The banking companies making acquisitions hope to increase profits by eliminating competitors and cutting costs. The sellers want to cash out while they can.
In Boise, Idaho, the banking business could not have looked better to Daniel R. Nelson, chairman of the West One Bancorp. Profits were up, loan losses down and new business brisk.
So why, in May, did Mr. Nelson decide to sell the bank to U.S. Bancorp of Portland, Ore., for $1.57 billion?
"Timing is everything," Mr. Nelson said. "Our board had been considering whether to sell for several years. We decided our earnings were not going to get any better than they had been." And with new competition and changing technology, he faced the prospect that the bank's profits and the price it could fetch would only decline.
With big banks like the Banc One Corporation of Columbus, Ohio, and the Nationsbank Corporation of Charlotte, N.C., scouring the country for acquisitions, there was hardly a bank big or small that had not considered selling. But until recently there was no hurry. In fact, with hostile takeovers rare in banking, executives were able to relax in executive suites, without pressure to cash out until they wanted.
This year, though, more banks like West One decided that the timing was right to sell. Three reasons stand out for the wave of bank mergers.
First, it is harder for bankers to increase their profits, now that they have finished cleaning up the problems of the late 1980's and have cut costs as much as they could. As for new lines of business, all but the largest banks have been wary of investing in such avenues as computer banking and mutual funds.
Second, the big banks like Banc One, which were already hungry for acquisitions, have been turning up the heat. Instead of waiting for their targets to decide to sell, as used to be the case, the acquiring banks have tried to force their hands with aggressive bids. The big banks especially want to prevent medium-sized banks from merging with each other and creating institutions too big for their grasp.
And third, stockholders have agitated with managements to sell at a premium rather than pursue defensive mergers, which do not carry a premium.
"Stockholders are becoming more active, with no tolerance for any kind of mistake or problem," said Richard M. Kovacevich, chairman of the Norwest Corporation of Minneapolis. "Banking is still more cozy than other industries, but it is a lot less cozy than it was three or four years ago, or even a year ago."
Some bankers, like those at New Jersey's two biggest banks, First Fidelity and Midlantic, decided it was time to cash out. Their buyers, the First Union Corporation of Charlotte, N.C., and the PNC Bank Corporation of Pittsburgh, respectively, decided it was worth paying a steep price to maintain their rapid growth. Similarly, First Bank System of Minneapolis bought Firstier Financial of Omaha earlier this month for $700 million.
At other banks, like First Chicago and NBD Bancorp of Detroit, the managements have chosen "mergers of equals," in which similarly sized institutions combine to create a far larger entity less vulnerable to a hostile takeover.
Even some banks with stock prices high enough to fend off hostile suitors have become interested in such combinations as a way to expand without either bank having to pay a huge takeover premium.
"There are some mergers of equals that make sense," John F. Grunhofer, chairman of First Bank Systems, said. But many of those never get off the ground, he added, because the two banks cannot agree on such "social issues" as who will be in charge, where the headquarters will be and what name to use.
That was what torpedoed the Bank of Boston's various efforts to merge with the regional rival Fleet Financial Group, with the Mellon Bank Corporation of Pittsburgh and, more recently, with the Corestates Financial Corporation of Philadelphia. That merger was abandoned last month before it was announced, after word of the deal was leaked and prompted criticism by investors and a brief hostile bid for Bank of Boston by Banc One of Ohio, which was withdrawn after the Corestates deal collapsed. The string of botched mergers cost the Bank of Boston chairman, Ira Stepanian, his job.
Mergers can be tough on the employees and communities, and will affect consumer habits.
A year ago, for example, Detroit had three major independent banks. Now NBD will be run from Chicago, and Michigan National was bought by National Australia Bank, leaving only Comerica Inc.
Not every bank executive feels the pressure to do something. Many who have found some profitable source of growth should be able to preserve their independence.
"I think the sellers are more pessimistic about the banking industry than I am," said Stephen A. Hansell, chief executive of the Hibernia Corporation in New Orleans, which has $6.3 billion in assets.
In many ways, the deals signify a changing of the guard. The current generation of bank chiefs came to power in the late 1980's and early 1990's, when banks were failing. The victims were mostly the highfliers who got too loose with their lending, especially to real estate developers. Then the industry rediscovered caution.
With a recovering economy and falling interest rates, bankers could look like heroes simply by cutting costs and not making new mistakes. Today, the industry seems to be in its best shape in decades.
But as suddenly as it arrived, that era is coming to a close. Many bankers have found they cannot increase their profits simply by cutting costs; they have to increase revenue somehow, and not all bank executives are up to the task.
As bright as the profits are today, most bankers see their industry's prospects as bleak, leaving room for only a few to thrive. Banks continue to lose their share of the nation's financial assets to mutual funds and other investments.
Moreover, what was once a bank's biggest advantage -- a branch on every major street corner -- has increasingly been viewed as an albatross in an era of automated banking. "At some point the cost of bank branches will be harder to justify," Mr. Nelson of West One said.
By selling now, not only did Mr. Nelson secure a high price for his shareholders -- nearly twice the bank's book value -- but also jobs for many of West One's executives in the combined company. Mr. Nelson became president and chief operating officer.
For many years the big banks played a waiting game, leaping to acquire smaller institutions when they got into trouble or when their chairmen neared retirement age.
"There are hundreds of banks out there we are talking to at any point in time," Mr. Kovacevich of Norwest said. "At any point, we are in negotiations with 40 or 50 banks, but we may buy 5 or 6 of those."
But now these big banks are getting itchy. Their stock prices have run up during the bull market, making it possible for them to buy banks for stock without diluting the earnings of existing shareholders. With that advantage, "the big guys are trying to figure out how quickly they have to move before they find all the good franchises gone," said John Duffy, the head of the bank merger practice at Keefe Bruyette & Woods.
More pressure has come from big investors in bank stocks.
Michael Price, an investment manager, put the squeeze on Michigan National until its management sold to National Australia. And now he has a big position in Chase Manhattan and has called on the bank to take steps to benefit shareholders, including a possible breakup.
Shareholders are becoming reluctant to take no for an answer. "If your four or five biggest shareholders start pressuring you to sell," said Doug Mercer, an investment banker at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, "as a board member you better have a pretty good reason why you aren't going to sell."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "The Big Money Mergers" lists financial statistics of the big banks planning to merge (Source: SNL Securities) (pg. A12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); USB (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (70%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOISE, ID, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE & TOUCHE AT&T INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (70%); U S BANCORP (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELOITTE & TOUCHE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FORECASTS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LABOR LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); MERGERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); CLOSINGS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (65%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL DANIEL R NELSON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



409 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Merchant Feud Sheds Light On Fish Market's Workings

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB 

 BODY:
Fulton Fish Market merchants boast about a legendary tradition: that their word on a business agreement is an unbreakable pledge, better than a signed contract.
But a real estate arrangement among three merchants that went awry has provoked a rare public feud at the insular market and provided an unusual look at how deals are made to do business on property owned by New York City. The dispute has erupted as the Giuliani administration is trying to end chaotic business practices, corruption and Mafia influence in the rough-and-tumble market in lower Manhattan. 
 The conflict has led to scuffles in the aisles of the narrow 15-by-100-foot stall, insults scrawled on the walls, claims of harassment of customers and a potpourri of legal problems for the merchants, two of whom are facing eviction. One was arrested on a charge that he illegally turned off the power to a refrigerator that his rival used to store seafood.
The feud has also spotlighted a widespread practice in which some licensed wholesale seafood dealers lease and sublease property without the city's knowledge and without the city's profiting from the higher rents obtained through the private deals.
Under new regulations that go into effect next month, the city will have the right to ban any dealer and to approve any sublease. The object is to ban unauthorized dealers, known as phantoms, who have been subleasing space from dealers registered with the city. Giuliani administration officials say dozens of phantoms, some with organized-crime connections, have operated in the market for years without any attempts by the city to oust them.
"The new regulations are designed to knock out the phantom tenants and to stop tenants, subtenants and sub-subtenants from profiteering through a gray market," said Randy M. Mastro, chief of staff to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. "Some people are making huge profits by leasing space without a penny going to the landlord of the market -- the city."
Subleases became highly profitable for the primary tenants because they could charge as much as they liked while their own low rents were frozen. In June, higher rents were imposed by the Giuliani administration for the first time since 1982. The Koch and Dinkins administrations had chosen not to negotiate new leases while the market was under criminal investigation.
An important economic cog for the city, the market -- the nation's largest wholesale seafood distribution center -- generates about $1 billion annually in sales and wages and 800 jobs.
The dispute among the three merchants is over Stall No. 21 in the New Building, one of two shed-like structures in the market on South Street just north of Fulton Street.
For 60 years, a trade organization, the New York Wholesale Fish Dealers Association, has negotiated with the city a group lease for the entire building. The 10 companies that are members of association do not pay rent directly to the city. Each pays a monthly charge to the association based on the number of stalls it has acquired.
In December, Albert Hakim, the owner of the Uniko Fish Company, obtained a lease as a subtenant for No. 21 from Clear Sailing Seafood Inc., a member of the association. Clear Sailing holds the primary rights to use the stall, but it has not sold seafood in the market for several years and leases its rights to dealers, even if they are not association members.
A lean and energetic 43-year-old, Mr. Hakim has leased space at various stalls for 10 years. In an interview, he said that when he negotiated the lease for No. 21 he knew that the C. G. Dino's Seafood Company, owned by Corrado Fiorentino, had been operating there for some time.
Mr. Hakim said that JoAnn La Rocca, the president of Clear Sailing, and her husband, Anthony LaRocca, assured him that C. G. Dino's would vacate the stall.
Under the sublease terms, Mr. Hakim agreed to pay $5,000 a month in rent to Clear Sailing starting in January and to raise it if the city increased the association's overall rent. Clear Sailing had been paying the association $3,150 a month, making an automatic profit of $1,850 a month from the sublease.
But Mr. Hakim asserted that in January Mr. Fiorentino refused to budge from the front of the stall. Asserting that eviction proceedings against C. G. Dino's would cost about $15,000 in legal fees, Mr. Hakim said that he permitted Mr. Fiorentino to remain and that Mr. Fiorentino agreed without a signed contract to pay him $4,000 a month in rent.
"It was a business judgment," said Mr. Hakim, who used the rear of the stall for his company. "If I tried to evict him, I would make a lot of enemies for kicking someone out of the market, and I thought I could operate with him on the premises."
Mr. Hakim said that his Uniko company at another stall last year had sales of $1.5 million and that he expected to gross about $3 million this year in his new quarters. All went smoothly, Mr. Hakim said, until April when the Giuliani administration said it would raise the rents at the market, which were then a total of $260,000 a year, in gradual steps to $2 million by June 1998.
Anticipating a rent increase, Mr. Hakim said he told Mr. Fiorentino his rent would also go up. Mr. Hakim said that in May Mr. Fiorentino stopped paying rent and that his employees interfered with Uniko's business by blocking aisles and making it hard for his customers, retail fish merchants and restaurateurs, to seek him out. Mr. Hakim said he had stopped paying rent to Clear Sailing, asserting that C. G. Dino's had ruined his business.
Mr. Hakim said that when Clear Sailing and the fish dealers' association did not respond to his pleas to remove C. G. Dino's, he warned Mr. Fiorentino that on July 3 he would shut down a refrigerator shared by his company and Mr. Fiorentino's.
On July 5, Mr. Hakim said he found that his office had been broken into and his equipment and records largely destroyed. Police officers, who responded to the break-in, however, arrested Mr. Hakim, after Mr. Fiorentino's employees complained that Mr. Hakim had mangled the refrigerator's electrical wiring.
Mr. Hakim has pleaded not guilty to misdemeanor charges of criminal mischief and criminal tampering.
In an interview, Mr. Hakim acknowledged that he had turned off the refrigerator's main switch. He said that was his right because he paid the electric bills and his company was doing little business.
Last month, Mr. Hakim began civil court proceedings to evict C. G. Dino's for nonpayment of rent. And, Clear Sailing, the primary tenant of the stall, is trying to evict Mr. Hakim for his failure to pay rent.
Mr. Fiorentino, a portly man in his early 50's, who on steamy days in the congested market works shirtless and in shorts, declined to discuss the quarrel with Mr. Hakim.
"This is a good place," he said. "Everyone's making a living."
Mr. LaRocca held Mr. Hakim responsible for the discord. "Dino was going to leave," he asserted. "But Albert Hakim needed a tenant to subsidize the rent and he ended up keeping Dino."
"Subleasing? That's the way everybody does business here," he added. "There's nothing unusual about it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stall No. 21 in the New Building at the Fulton Fish Market is the focus of a leasing dispute that has raised questions about how closely the city monitors operations at its property. New rules take effect in September. (Allan Tannenbaum for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIKO FISH CO; CLEAR SAILING SEAFOOD INC; C G DINO SEAFOOD CO NEW BUILDING SOCIETY (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIKO FISH CO; CLEAR SAILING SEAFOOD INC; C G DINO SEAFOOD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FULTON FISH MARKET (NYC); FISHING, COMMERCIAL; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); FISH & SEAFOOD WHOLESALERS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SEAFOOD (90%); WHOLESALERS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CORRUPTION (75%); EVICTION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); ARRESTS (68%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); APPROVALS (65%); 

PERSON: RAAB, SELWYN RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



410 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1682 words

HEADLINE: How Ted Turner Plans to Play For a Network

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
When the aspiring television magnate Ted Turner bought his second station, WRET-TV in Charleston, S.C., in 1972, it was bargain-basement property in financial peril.
Desperate to keep it afloat, Mr. Turner, then better known as an outdoor-advertising entrepreneur with a flair for the burlesque sales pitch, had the station run an on-air "beg-a-thon." Announcers beseeched viewers of the mostly old-movie channel to donate the price of two theater tickets. The ploy raised more than $30,000 and helped keep WRET-TV on the air. 
 These days, Mr. Turner's beg-a-thon may be tonier. He is still the enfant terrible of entrepreneurs, but the 56-year-old executive is traveling by private jet in his quest for cash. And these days when Mr. Turner launches into one of his legendary harangues, he is seeking billions, not thousands, of dollars.
But Mr. Turner, who declined to be interviewed for this article, is as obsessive about getting CBS as he was a decade ago. And his strategy is no less piecemeal.
At a time when the global entertainment business is consolidating into giants like Disney-ABC, Time Warner, Viacom and Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, Mr. Turner believes that his $2.8 billion Turner Broadcasting System needs to grow, and quickly, if he has any hope of running with the big boys. That is why he is trying to cobble together a takeover bid for CBS Inc., which would require topping the $5.4 billion purchase price that the Westinghouse Electric Corporation has agreed to pay.
Mr. Turner's board is to hold a special meeting by telephone this afternoon in Atlanta to debate the game plan.
But unlike Michael D. Eisner of Disney, who could agree to pay $19.2 billion for Capital Cities/ABC Inc. without worrying about where the money would come from, Mr. Turner does not have the resources to top Westinghouse's $5.4 billion bid for CBS on his own. Nor does he have the authority. Mr. Turner cannot spend more than $2 million without the approval of his board, where two seats are held by one of Turner Broadcasting's biggest shareholders, Time Warner, which until now has opposed his network ambitions.
"It's really a hard one because Ted has to climb three high mountains in a row: he has to satisfy Time Warner, get the financing in place and convince his board that the deal that he wants to do for CBS makes sense," said Emanuel Gerard, a partner at Gerard Klauer, Mattison & Company, an investment firm.
Until recently Time Warner, which is trying to raise money to pay off its $15 billion in debt, had indicated that it wanted to sell its 17.4 percent holding either for $1.6 billion in cash or for a Turner asset like the Cartoon Network. Time Warner was reluctant to approve any network acquisition because Turner would not meet its buyout price.
But now Time Warner is considering supporting a Turner bid for CBS as a means of increasing the value of its Turner stake. Time Warner, however, still wants assurance that it can eventually sell its stock back to Turner at a guaranteed price -- a technique known on Wall Street as a "put" -- according to several people familiar with the discussions.
Such an understanding would give Turner the latitude to organize a bid for CBS, the sources said.
While Turner's reported cut-and-paste strategy seems risky to many people, "Ted Turner has been a pre-eminent and extraordinary risk- taker before," Sumner M. Redstone, the chairman of Viacom, said yesterday. "The world thought he was mad when he attempted to create CNN and mad when he bought the M-G-M library, but he turned out to be successful."
One cornerstone of Turner's possible strategy will be voted on today: the $1.7 billion buyout of the cash-rich King World Productions, which distributes syndicated television programs like "Oprah Winfrey" and "Jeopardy." Some people once believed that this cash would enable Mr. Turner to meet Time Warner's original price. While that option remains, doing so would divert funds Turner badly needs to fight for CBS.
But executives close to the talks reiterated late yesterday that the situation was fluid. Even if Time Warner supports Mr. Turner's CBS obsession, he needs more money, which is why he has approached people like William H. Gates, chairman of the Microsoft Corporation, about chipping in $1 billion or more.
But a bidding war could be perilous to both sides. Many analysts already consider Westinghouse's $83-a-share offer overpriced. Even Mr. Turner, in announcing his intention to go after CBS in a recent speech at a broadcasting convention in Pasadena, Calif., characterized his effort as a long shot.
Some industry executives wonder why Mr. Turner is so determined to take CBS, when they do not believe he needs it. They say he is under far less pressure to strike a strategic alliance than was the Walt Disney Company, for example. Disney, a major producer of network programming, agreed to buy Capital Cities/ABC partly from fear that it would have trouble selling its programs, now that the broadcast networks are no longer bound by Federal regulations that limited their ability to produce in-house programming.
"With Ted, what is missing is the economic equation that drives the other buyers," said Frank J. Biondi Jr., the president of Viacom Inc. "Turner produces very little network TV programming."
But he added: "There is some rationale for a merger. What Turner does bring are unique vertical-integration possibilities in news. That could justify the purchase, if the price is right."
The centerpiece of the Turner empire is the Cable News Network, which has an extensive web of bureaus and reporters within the United States and around the globe, but is coming under new competitive pressure internationally from NBC and European rivals. CBS, meanwhile, has a once-vaunted news operation, here and abroad, growing threadbare after years of budget cuts.
Executives close to Mr. Turner estimate that the combined budgets of CNN and CBS News are about $700 million annually, and that if they were merged the new operation could save at least $100 million a year. News, of course, is only part of Turner Broadcasting, which also includes cable channels like the TBS Superstation, Turner Network Television and Turner Classic Movies; the film studios New Line Cinema and Castle Rock Entertainment, and the Hanna-Barbera cartoon studio. Mr. Turner is even now hoping to buy the Samuel Goldwyn Company, owner of movie theaters and a film library.
"Turner can use its news, sports and entertainment programming to make a TV network better," said an executive familiar with the company's CBS strategy, speaking on the condition of anonymity. And in turn, he said, Turner can afford to make better programming because it would have better access to a larger audience and larger advertising revenues.
It is the same the-rich-get-richer philosophy on which Rupert Murdoch has based the growth of the Fox Network and other pieces of the News Corporation's global sprawl. "Rupert Murdoch has changed sports," this same executive said. "He could pay more for sports such as Wimbledon Tennis, for instance because he could carry the games in the U.S. as well as on Sky TV in England and Star-TV in Asia."
With CBS, Turner Broadcasting might be able to expand his potential audience for sports beyond Atlanta Braves games on TBS and the patchwork of professional football and basketball games that sometimes appear on Turner Network Television.
Today Turner's entertainment companies -- Hanna-Barbera, New Line Cinema and Castle Rock -- produce little programming for the networks. However, if Turner owned CBS, it would give Hanna-Barbera a ready-made network customer. New Line and Castle Rock, which already produces "Seinfeld" for NBC, could become more aggressive in television production.
But some television executives see no need for Turner to buy CBS. "You can always sell good programming," said one industry executive, intrigued by Mr. Turner's strategy. "You don't have to own a network to get programming on the air."
Such arguments may find a voice today among Turner board members. Turner's two leading shareholders are Time Warner and Tele-Communications Inc., the nation's largest cable operators. On the issue of a network purchase, they must weigh both Turner's interests and their own. While Time Warner seems to be waivering in its strategy, the Tele-Communications Inc. president, John C. Malone, has said he would support a bid for a network. As a cable operator, Mr. Malone has an interest in access to programming, and talk in the industry has it that Mr. Malone believes he would play a stronger role at Turner, if the company were weakened by additional debt.
What is more, even if King World's cash was not used to buy out Time Warner's stake, Turner's acquisition of King World would contribute only a portion of the $2 billion or more in capital that media analysts say Mr. Turner would need to make a credible bid for CBS.
Despite reports that Microsoft might pony up at least $1 billion of the money Mr. Turner needs, a Microsoft spokeswoman said Friday that no deal with Turner was imminent. In theory, Microsoft needs access to "content" like the Cable News Network for its new on-line Microsoft Network. But media industry experts said Microsoft could easily make a deal for those rights without making an equity investment in Turner itself.
Mr. Turner first approached Mr. Gates of Microsoft in July, at the annual conference that the Allen & Company investment firm holds in Sun Valley, Idaho, for media-industry deal makers. It was Mr. Turner's first visit to the conference, where billionaires are almost commonplace and even the brash, fast-talking Mr. Turner could be overshadowed by power brokers like Mr. Gates, Mr. Malone, Mr. Eisner, Mr. Redstone and everybody's favorite shareholder, Warren E. Buffett.
True, none of them have ever won the Americas Cup yacht race or married Jane Fonda. But many of them play in far larger sandboxes than Mr. Turner's. And Mr. Turner is determined to change that.

GRAPHIC: Charts: Ted Turner's game plan for making a bid for CBS may become clearer today when the board of Turner Broadcasting meets in Atlanta. Possible moves include buying cash-rich King World Productions, bringing on a partner like Microsoft, buying out minority shareholders that might obstruct a bid, and picking up a film and television company. Some obstacles he might encounter: a drop in Turner's stock price, which could cripple his financing, or a bidding war with Westinghouse that could put CBS beyond his reach. (pg. D1)
 
 
"Turner's Empire"
 
1994 TOTAL REVENUE for Turner Broadcasting Systems Inc. -- $2.81 billion*
 Entertaiment (Includes Broadcasting and Production/Distribution segments) -- $2 billion
 News -- $667 million
 Other -- $164 million
 
HOLDINGS
 
Programming
 TBS Superstation
 Turner Network Television
 Cartoon Network
 Turner Classic Movies
 Cartoon Network and TNT in Europe, Asia and Latin America
 
Production & Distribution
 New Line Cinema
 Castle Rock Enterainment
 Turner Pictures Worldwide
 Hanna-Barbera Cartoons
 Turner Entertainment Co.
 Turner Home Entertainment
 
News
 Cable News Network
 Headline News
 CNN International
 
Other
 Atlanta Braves
 World Championship Wrestling
 CNN Airport Network
 CNN Center (office and hotel comples)
 
*Figures do not equal total revenue because overlapping revenue between business units has been elimiated.
 
(Source: Annual Report) (pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS811118 OTHER AUTOMOTIVE MECHANICAL & ELECTRICAL REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (66%); SIC7539 AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (74%); ASIA (74%); LATIN AMERICA (67%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CBS INC; TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC; WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP; TIME WARNER CORP CBS CORP (93%); ABC INC (83%); NEWS CORP (82%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (67%); WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CO LLC (66%); GERARD KLAUER MATTISON & CO LLC (60%); VIACOM INC (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CBS INC; TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC; WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP; TIME WARNER CORP ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (74%); ASIA (74%); LATIN AMERICA (67%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); TAKEOVERS (70%); BASEBALL (70%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); APPROVALS (63%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (57%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE; TURNER, TED KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



411 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: British Government Wants Big Push for Advanced TV

BYLINE: By RICHARD STEVENSON 

DATELINE: LONDON, Aug. 20

 BODY:
The Government of Prime Minister John Major has announced it wants to push the country within two years into adopting the digital technology to carry high-definition television, with its crystal-clear pictures, wide screens and crisp sound.
If the effort succeeds, it would probably make Britain the first big nation to put mass-market digital technology to use, potentially making the country a test-bed for the next generation of television. 
 Earlier this month the Government announced plans for over-the-air broadcasters to begin using digital signals -- the transmission system for carrying high-definition pictures -- for their transmissions as soon as 1997. Digital signals are composed of a binary code, and carry more information than the analog, or wave, signals that television is carried on today.
The United States and other nations are also well along in planning for digital broadcasting. But the regulatory outlook for the technology is still muddled in the United States, and it has been unclear how much enthusiasm there would be for high-definition pictures among American broadcasters and viewers, or how soon any service might start.
If the British plan comes to fruition, the country could become a laboratory for American regulators and the broadcasting industry. There is some skepticism in the television business here about the Government's timetable being realistic, and some trepidation, too, that digital television might be a case of technical capabilities getting ahead of viewer demand and the industry's financial capabilities.
The British Government, by contrast, has unreservedly tried to promote digital broadcasting in the hope of giving the nation's broadcasters, program producers and television-equipment manufacturers a head start in what it sees as a promising worldwide business. Last week the Sony Corporation said it was in talks with the BBC, British Telecommunications P.L.C. and other British companies about deals to develop equipment for the new system.
"Digital broadcasting could transform the viewing and listening habits of the nation, as well as providing thousands of new jobs," said Virginia Bottomley, who as National Heritage Minister oversees broadcasting policy and regulation. "Britain stands poised to take a world lead, reaping immense benefits for U.K. viewers and listeners and U.K. industries."
As recently as a decade ago, the British broadcasting industry was dormant by American standards, with viewers limited to the two BBC stations and a single commercial network, ITV. In 1982, Channel Four began operation.
Now, encouraged by the Conservative Government's free-market policies, Britain has become one of the world's most dynamic television markets. Not only is a third commercial outlet likely, but Britain is home to one of the world's most ambitious direct-to-home satellite broadcasters, British Sky Broadcasting, controlled by Rupert Murdoch.
B Sky B currently offers 21 channels to its 4.2 million subscribers, and although its ratings are relatively low, Mr. Murdoch has continued to invest heavily in its growth, in part through heavy spending to secure rights to sports events and movies. (He is also planning to shift his satellite transmission to digital signals, greatly increasing the number of channels he would be able to offer, although, in the case of digital television, quantity has often been achieved at the expense of quality.)
At the same time, cable television has grown rapidly after a slow start. Britain set up a far more liberal regulatory regime for cable than the United States or any other country, allowing, for example, the delivery of both telephone and television service over the same fiber-optic lines.
As a result, the cable industry here, which delivers everything from Britain's home-grown channels to services like the Discovery Channel and all-news networks, is dominated by large American telephone companies, including Nynex and U S West. These companies were attracted not only by the chance to make money, but by the opportunity to gain experience for the day when the last barriers fall between telecommunications and entertainment in the United States.
The Government has applied the same market-oriented approach to digital television. It said earlier this month it would award six blocks of frequencies next year to broadcasting groups, each of which could use the frequencies to broadcast up to three channels. Each group, known as a "multiplex" operator, could bring together several broadcasters or program suppliers to fill its channels; the two BBC networks, the two commercial networks and a soon-to-be-licensed fifth network are guaranteed slots by the Government's plan, and would have to transmit at least 80 percent of their current broadcasts.
The licenses would be awarded on the basis of bids detailing the types of programming the operators would make available and how much investment they would make in developing the services. Existing analog broadcasts would continue for years, allowing for a gradual changeover.
The Government left many of the economic and technical details to be worked out by industry. Among the key questions to be resolved are the cost of the decoder boxes or new television sets needed to receive digital signals; what sort of programming should fill the 18 new channels; whether all the new services would be free or whether some would be by subscription or pay-per-view, and the extent to which programming would be combined with interactive services like home shopping and banking.
The Government did make a crucial policy decision: It said use of the digital frequencies for nonbroadcast, telecommunications or interactive services would be limited to 10 percent of the available capacity, insuring that most of the frequencies would be used for higher-quality pictures. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BT (NYSE) (81%); BT (LSE) (81%); SON (LSE) (65%); SNE (NYSE) (65%); 6758 (TSE) (65%); BSY (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (81%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (65%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (65%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: BT GROUP PLC (81%); SONY CORP (65%); BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION (HDTV); PUBLIC OPINION; RESEARCH HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (91%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (82%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



412 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Sell Notes This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week includes today's weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills, and auctions of new two-year notes on Tuesday and five-year notes on Wednesday.
By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 5.42 percent, and on the six-month bill, 5.45 percent. In when-issued trading, the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 6.12 percent and the five-year note at a price to yield 6.36 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
American Rice Inc., $100 million of senior mortgage notes due in 2002, B3/B-/--. Jefferies & Co.
Sinclair Broadcast Group Inc., $300 million of senior subordinated notes due in 2005, B1/B+/--. Chase Securities.
Source: MCM Corporatewatch.
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
San Francisco International Airport, $100 milllion of revenue bonds. Competitive.
State of Georgia, $227.285 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
New Jersey Housing and Mortgage Finance Agency, $63.295 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Bexar Metro Water District, Tex., $63 million of revenue bonds. Smith Barney Inc.
Connecticut Housing Finance Authority, $72 million of revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch & Co.
Harris County Health Facilities Development Corp., Tex., $67.855 million of referred bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Indianapolis Resource Recovery, $87 million of revenue bonds. Smith Barney Inc.
New York State Thruway Authority, $235 million of contract bonds. Paine Webber Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (69%); JPM (LSE) (69%); 8634 (TSE) (69%); SBGI (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS311212 RICE MILLING (69%); SIC2044 RICE MILLING (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (68%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (69%); AMERICAN RICE INC (69%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (69%); SINCLAIR BROADCAST GROUP INC (69%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (68%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (54%); NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE THRUWAY AUTHORITY (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (67%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (65%); AIRPORTS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



413 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Reborn Mirabella Counts on Itself as Role Model

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE CARMODY 

 BODY:
In 1989, Grace Mirabella, who had just been ousted as editor in chief of Vogue, started Mirabella, a new kind of fashion magazine that really was not a fashion magazine. Under the direction of Ms. Mirabella and its top editor, Amy Gross, the magazine became known as a smart, stylish magazine for intelligent, involved women.
Ms. Gross left Mirabella in 1993 to become editorial director of one of the magazine's main rivals, Elle. Last March, after six years in the red, Mirabella was sold by News America Publishing Inc. to Hachette Filipacchi Magazines, the owner of Elle -- which promptly suspended its publication. 
 Next week, a reincarnated Mirabella will reach the newsstands, with Ms. Gross again its editor in chief and Ms. Mirabella listed on the masthead as founder.
It will be, you might say, a case of deja vu all over again.
The magazine is positioning itself as a smart, stylish magazine for intelligent, involved women. And it is still a fashion magazine that isn't really a fashion magazine.
"It started out as a fashion magazine in the fashion magazine category, but from the beginning, Grace said it was a style magazine," Ms. Gross said. "Before, Mirabella was about 50 percent fashion and now it will be 25 percent fashion with another 15 percent about beauty and appearance. We are not mostly about fashion because our readers' lives are not mostly fashion."
The people at Hachette, a unit of Matra-Hachette of France, say they are confident they can turn Mirabella into a profitable publication, because the magazine faced problems while it was at News America that will not exist this time around.
Just after Mirabella's start-up, they say, the magazine industry plunged into its worst recession in decades. And in 1991, News America, a division of Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, sold most of its magazines, including New York, Premiere and Seventeen, to K-III Communications; only TV Guide and Mirabella were not sold. K-III passed on Mirabella because the magazine, still laden with start-up debt, was losing nearly $16 million a year.
"One of the reasons that Mirabella did not make it is that Murdoch is a communications company with no magazines except TV Guide, and Mirabella stood alone," said Carl Portale, Mirabella's new publisher, who is also publisher of Elle. "It just didn't work."
Now Mirabella will be part of a Hachette corporate sales group. In other words, an advertiser buying ad pages in Mirabella might receive a lower rate for also buying pages in other Hachette publications, like Elle, Elle Decor and Premiere. "Mirabella will have a life-support system here," Mr. Portale said.
Although it was not a full-fledged fashion magazine at News America, Mirabella competed for advertising with the three established fashion magazines: Vogue, Elle and Harper's Bazaar. In 1994, its last full year, Mirabella ran 819 ad pages, compared with Vogue's 2,478, Elle's 1,488 and Harper's Bazaar's 1,438.
The circulation guaranteed to advertisers is now 550,000, down 50,000 from the Murdoch days. The first issue will have 73 ad pages, including ads from Tiffany, Anne Klein, Ralph Lauren, Donna Karan, Cadillac and Saks Fifth Avenue.
Mirabella, which will be published every other month, will still be aimed at women over 30 with an interest in topics like ethics, books, politics, the arts and health.
"I would think if you would want a magazine about ideas this would be it," said Ms. Gross, who will remain editorial director of Elle.
In recent years the magazine seemed to lose its editorial focus and identity. And even when it was winning praise for its editorial content, it was struggling financially.
Ms. Gross says Mirabella will not simply be a carbon copy of its former self, but she is certainly trying to recapture its original vision.
She said focus groups with readers of the magazine indicated they wanted good writing and thoughtful articles. She said the readers of Mirabella -- unlike those of Elle -- were not looking for "the newest, the hottest, the hippest."
Contributors to the new Mirabella include the writers Jane Smiley, Marsha Norman, Mary Gaitskill and Meg Wolitzer. There will be two health pieces in every issue, a short list of recommended books, and features like Studio Visit, in which a writer visits young artists at their studios.
Marc Balet, the magazine's art director, said he had tried to distinguish the new Mirabella from the hipper, more jazzy Elle.
"I want it to look strong, modern, uncluttered, but I believe in taking readers on a visual roller coaster so they are not bored," he said. "It's kind of Hollywood meets fashion meets politics. The fashion has an edge but its not strange or unattainable. It's modern."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amy Gross was Mirabella's first editor in 1989, but moved to Elle in 1993. She has returned to Mirabella, which starts up again next week. (Fred R.Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: MIRABELLA (MAGAZINE); HACHETTE FILIPACCHI MAGAZINES NEWS AMERICA PUBLISHING INC (84%); NEWS CORP (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIRABELLA (MAGAZINE); HACHETTE FILIPACCHI MAGAZINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; WOMEN FASHION & APPAREL (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEWSSTANDS (75%); PRINT ADVERTISING (75%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

PERSON: CARMODY, DEIRDRE; GROSS, AMY KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



414 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-7
 
BOMB KILLS 4 IN JERUSALEM
A suicide bomber struck a Jerusalem bus, killing four people and wounding about 100 others. A militant Palestinian group claimed responsibility. The bombing set off protests against talks for Palestinians for self-rule. A1
 
An American teacher died in the Jerusalem bombing. A6
 
TRIBUTE AFTER BOSNIA DEATHS
Americans paid tribute to the three United States officials killed in an accident while on a peace mission in Bosnian, and their colleagues pledged to complete their mission successfully. A1
 
BOSNIA'S FORGOTTEN REFUGEES
A group of 25,000 Bosnian Muslims, followers of a dissident allied with the Serbs, were forced into Croatia as a Serb siege was broken. Now they are refugees, reflecting the Balkan war's complexities. A7
 
DIVORCE SURGES IN CHINA
China's society is undergoing a profound change, with a surge in divorce reflecting rapid economic growth that is causing new hopes and fears and with less Government interference in personal lives. A1
 
MORE CHECHNYA FIGHTING
Russian troops retook a police station in Chechnya that had been seized by Chechen separatist rebels, which appeared to be a severe setback in the fragile peace process for the region. A3
 
RWANDA REFUGEES FORCED OUT
Zaire forced several thousand Rwandan refugees out of refugee camps and back across the border, causing thousands of other refugees to flee the camps because they fear reprisals if they return home. A2
 
India searched for the signalman who fled after a rail disaster. A5
 
Avignon Journal: Begging nomads get their hands slapped. A4
 
National A8-13
 
ABC SETTLES TOBACCO SUITS
ABC News apologized for asserting in a news program that two large tobacco companies add extra nicotine to their cigarettes. A1

AIR CRASH IN GEORGIA
A commuter plane flying from Georgia to Mississippi crashed in a field and broke apart, killing 3 people and injuring 26, some of whom fled the wreckage with their clothes on fire. A8
 
DEFEAT FOR FUHRMAN TAPE
The judge in the O. J. Simpson trial rejected the taped interviews with Detective Mark Fuhrman, saying the defense motion was filled with mistakes. A8
 
SPY STORE CHAIN INDICTED
A chain of spy shops and three of its executives were indicted on charges of smuggling illegal bugging and wiretapping devices into the country and selling them. A10
 
EFFORT TO SHIELD BOMBING JURORS
The judge in the Oklahoma City bombing case ordered lawyers to propose ways to shield the trial jury from outside interference. A12
 
DURENBERGER TO PLEAD GUILTY
David Durenberger, a former Republican Senator from Minnesota, has agreed to plead guilty to five counts involving cheating on his Senate expense account. A11
 
REYNOLDS CASE TO JURY
The case against Representative Mel Reynolds went to the jury after prosecutors portrayed him as a man who lured a 16-year-old girl into a sexual relationship. A13
 
Jacksonville Journal: A sports team brings a city an identity. A8
 
Metro Digest B1
 
FOR KOREANS, KOREA CALLS
Thousands of Koreans who poured into this country over the last two decades are returning to their homeland, while potential immigrants are losing interest in moving to the United States. A1
 
MELEE AT PENTECOSTAL CHURCH
Six officers and 28 churchgoers were injured in a clash between roughly a hundred police officers in riot gear and several hundred parishioners after a Pentecostal revival meeting in Queens. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-19
 
Ottoman art in a Geneva show. C13
Richard Ford explores real estate as a metaphor for fulfillment. C13
Music: All about Bartok. C13
Mostly Mozart finale. C14
A polyphony of weather and music. C16
On hip-hop. C18
Books: "Sabbath's Theater," by Philip Roth. C17
Television: "Prozac on Trial." C18
 
Fashion B6
 
Science C1-12
 
Volcanic plumes, deeper than thought, spread vast fields. C1
How malaria changes itself to resist treatment. C1
 
Sports B7-12
 
Obituaries D19-20
 
Dr. Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, Nobel laureate in physics
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
Bullying Taiwan.
The chaff in Iowa's straw poll.
Sadness at The Citadel.
Return of the champions.
 
Letters
 
Neal Gabler: Revenge of the studio system.
Donald F. Kettl, Louis Winnick: Privatize city jails? Here's the hitch.
Geraldine A. Ferraro: Women's rights, human rights.
Danielle Crittenden: Yes, motherhood lowers pay.
 
Chronicle B2
 
Chess C11
 
Crossword C14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RWANDA (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (95%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (66%); AMERICAN BROADCASTING COS INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RWANDA (92%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); CROATIA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (95%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOMBINGS (91%); REFUGEES (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); GUILTY PLEAS (85%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (75%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (73%); SMUGGLING (71%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); WIRETAPPING (66%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (66%); RETAILERS (66%); INDICTMENTS (66%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (64%); TOBACCO MFG (63%); RELIGION (55%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (53%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); 

PERSON: DAVID FERDINAND DURENBERGER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



415 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

ABC Apologizes for Saying Nicotine Was Manipulated
ABC News apologized to Philip Morris and R. J. Reynolds for asserting, on "Day One," that tobacco companies manipulated nicotine levels in cigarettes to addict smokers. "That was a mistake," ABC said, settling a $10 billion libel suit that was to have gone to trial in October.
ABC will pay the two companies' legal expenses, which could run to $3 million, and the network agreed to apologize twice in prime time, first during the halftime of last night's broadcast of "Monday Night Football" and again on Thursday on "Day One." The legal fees and air time make this one of the costliest libel settlements ever. [Page A1.]
 
Analysts Speak, Intel Stock Falls
Intel shares plunged 7 percent after two analysts, expressing concern about profits, trimmed their earnings estimates. The shares dropped $4.625, to $60.25, after hitting a lofty $76 just a month ago. [D8.]
 
A New Culprit in Peso's Collapse
Why did the Mexican peso collapse last winter? At first, a drop in foreign investment was seen as the culprit, but a report by the International Monetary Fund points to Mexican investors who sent billions out of the country. The Clinton Administration may face criticism for the billions it poured in, but the report agreed that a rescue was needed. [D5.]
 
Is Warner-Lambert Next?
Is Warner-Lambert the next drug maker ripe for merger, now that Upjohn and Pharmacia of Sweden have joined forces? Perhaps, but investors should see a cautionary lesson in the uneven ride that both Upjohn and Pharmacia shares have taken. Both stocks fell sharply at first, then rebounded after the companies met with analysts to explain the deal's merits. Market Place. [D8.]
 
Dow Rises, Then Gives It Back
Stocks had a bumpy day, with the Dow industrials quickly rising nearly 40 points, then retreating as a weak outlook for Intel led technology stocks down. The Dow closed at 4,614.78 points, off 2.82, and the technology-heavy Nasdaq lost 11.58 points, or more than 1 percent, closing at 1,019.70, after setting a string of record highs last week. [D8.]
 
Bond Prices Rise Slightly
Bond prices rose in thin trading, reflecting optimism among a few buyers that the Federal Reserve might lower interest rates when it meets today -- an action that most analysts don't expect. [D18.]
 
Restraint on 'Greenhouse Gases'
Manufacturers urged the Clinton Administration not to make new vows to cut "greenhouse gas" emissions at talks that opened yesterday in Geneva. The manufacturers said there would be "significant harm to the U.S. economy" in proposals to reduce such gases, which some fear cause a warming of the atmosphere. [D2.]
 
Arakis Shares Plunge on Doubts
Arakis Energy's shares plunged as investors questioned its ambitious but obscure plans to finance a huge oil and pipeline project in the Sudan with funds from a little-known Saudi prince. The stock fell $4.50, to close at $13.50 yesterday. [D2.]
 
Surfing the Internetplex
Film promotion on the Internet? Of course. Nearly every studio has a "home page" on the World Wide Web, offering stills, cast biographies, soundtracks, entire trailers. Star-struck viewers can even send E-mail to actors and directors (no response promised). Advertising. [D6.]
 
 
Aetna Pressure on Doctors Charged
Contending that Aetna pressured doctors to join its health care plan on Long Island, physicians at three hospitals filed an antitrust suit in Federal Court. [D4.]
 
Budget Deficit Narrows
The Federal budget deficit narrowed in July from a year earlier as Government spending slowed and revenue increased. [D4.]
 
Du Pont Fined Over Fungicide
Du Pont was fined $115 million by a Federal judge for concealing evidence in a 1993 trial over possible harm to plants caused by a fungicide. [D8.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325220 ARTIFICIAL & SYNTHETIC FIBERS & FILAMENTS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2824 MANMADE ORGANIC FIBERS, EXCEPT CELLULOSIC (54%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (83%); PHARMACIA CORP (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TOBACCO INDUSTRY (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); TOBACCO MFG (91%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (88%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (86%); GREENHOUSE GASES (83%); LIBEL & SLANDER (78%); SMOKING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); MERGERS (74%); CLIMATE CHANGE (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); BOND MARKETS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); EMISSIONS (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (83%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



416 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Vows to Carry On Work Of 3 Envoys Killed in Bosnia

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 21

 BODY:
Invoking the myth of Sisyphus, top United States officials paid tribute today to three colleagues who died struggling to bring peace to Bosnia.
They said they would continue their struggle and, unlike Sisyphus, succeed. 
 At a grim ceremony on the tarmac at Andrews Air Force Base, Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Defense Secretary William J. Perry and the President's national security adviser, Anthony Lake, eulogized the dead envoys, killed on Saturday when their armored personnel carrier plunged off a mountain road outside Sarajevo.
Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Robert C. Frasure, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense Joseph Kruzel and Col. S. Nelson Drew of the Air Force, who was a National Security Council aide, were the heart and soul of the American diplomatic effort in Bosnia, the officials said after an honor guard bore their coffins from a military transport plane to waiting hearses.
Mr. Perry said the quest for peace in Bosnia "has in the past seemed like a struggle of Sisyphus.
"We have been pushing the rock of peace up the side of the Bosnian mountain for a long time now, and it has kept rolling back down," Mr. Perry said. "But like Sisyphus we will not stop trying."
Other officials were at a loss today to say how the three could be replaced -- and by whom, and when, and whether the American mission in Bosnia has been irreparably damaged by their deaths.
Though they will be replaced, "no one can replace them," Assistant Secretary of State Richard Holbrooke, who led the mission and was in a separate armored personnel carrier traveling with the diplomats who died.
"But we will reconstitute the team," he said at a brief ceremony at Ramstein Air Base in Germany, before he accompanied the coffins back to the United States.
At the Pentagon and the State Department, where flags flew at half-staff, the mood among those who knew the dead was one of sadness and shock.
"To have died in Bosnia -- what a waste," said one Pentagon colleague who saw Mr. Kruzel regularly at staff meetings. "That place is such a mess. Yet Joe was seized with dealing with it."
After the ceremony at Andrews Air Force Base, Mr. Christopher, Mr. Perry and Mr. Lake met to discuss how best to resume the Bosnia mission, which was suspended after the deaths of the three men, the first United States officials killed in the four-year conflict. Mr. Holbrooke is scheduled to return to Bosnia on Aug. 28, but he needs a new negotiating team.
He may also need new ideas. Mr. Frasure, who was the American envoy most experienced in dealing with the leaders of the seemingly intractable conflict, was publicly hopeful but privately skeptical that the latest round of talks would succeed, American officials said.
Diplomats here and in Bosnia have described the latest plans as conceding Bosnian territory to the Serbs, ending economic sanctions on Serbia in exchange for the Serbs' granting diplomatic recognition to their enemies, and threatening acts of war against any faction seeking to sabotage the deal.
But the mission faced stumbling blocks that have thus far been insurmountable. They include power struggles within the Serbian leadership and their refusal to negotiate with the Muslims, and the Muslims' rejection of land swaps to create contiguous and more easily defensible territories.
In Geneva, the five-nation "contact group" on Bosnia, comprised of diplomats from the United States, Britain, Germany, France and Russia, postponed its next meeting, which had been scheduled for Tuesday. The group was to discuss the plan that the envoys who were killed on Saturday were trying to promote in talks with the warring Muslims, Croats and Serbs.
At Andrews Air Force Base, Mr. Lake, after hearing Mr. Perry invoke Sisyphus and well aware that the mythological king spent eternity watching the stone roll back, emphasized that the United States would someday succeed in seeing peace come to the ravaged lands of the former Yugoslavia.
"Unlike Sisyphus," he said, "we will put that rock on top of the mountain."
Mr. Christopher promised that "one day the shells will stop falling in Bosnia, the minefields will be cleared, and the terrible cycle of needless violence and death will finally come to an end.
"When it does," he continued, "it will be due to devoted peacemakers like Bob and Joe and Nelson."
On Wednesday, President Clinton will fly from his vacation retreat in Jackson, Wyo., to attend memorial services for the dead diplomats at Arlington National Cemetery. "He knew each of them personally and wanted to be there with their families and friends," said a deputy press secretary, Ginny Terzano.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
50 Observers to Replace Troops
 SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Aug. 21 (AP) -- The United Nations said today that it would replace peacekeepers defending the "safe area" of Gorazde with 50 unarmed observers -- a decision condemned by Bosnia's Muslim-led Government.
Western allies have vowed to protect Gorazde, the last Muslim enclave left in eastern Bosnia after rebel Serbs seized Srebrenica and Zepa in July. The Serbs shelled Gorazde on Sunday, killing three girls.
"When will enough be enough, and what will it take for the United Nations and NATO to react to this terrorism?" Foreign Minister Muhamed Sacirbey said in a letter on Sunday to the Security Council.
After Serbs overran Srebrenica and Zepa, the United Nations threatened heavy NATO air strikes to prevent the fall of Gorazde.
United Nations officials said they hoped 90 Ukrainian peacekeepers could be withdrawn from Gorazde on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott and Madeleine Albright, the delegate to the United Nations, at ceremony honoring fallen diplomats. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (93%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (90%); 

COMPANY: ANDREWS AIR FORCE (68%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); US AIR FORCE (57%); QUEST FOR PEACE (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); QUEST FOR PEACE (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); US AIR FORCE (57%); QUEST FOR PEACE (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); QUEST FOR PEACE (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SARAJEVO (BOSNIA); UNITED STATES (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); GERMANY (79%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); AIR FORCES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); MOUNTAINS (70%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; FRASURE, ROBERT (DEPUTY ASST SEC); KRUZEL, JOSEPH (DEPUTY SEC); DREW, SAM NELSON (COL); CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC); PERRY, WILLIAM J (SEC); LAKE, ANTHONY RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



417 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1511 words

HEADLINE: In China, Rapid Social Changes Bring a Surge in the Divorce Rate

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
For centuries, ordinary Chinese have greeted each other on the street with a question that reflected the nation's primary concern: "Chi le ma?" or "Have you eaten?"
Now, according to a popular joke in Beijing, people who see a friend on the street voice a new concern with a new question: "Li le ma?" -- "Have you divorced?" 
 In China, where rapid economic growth is creating new hopes and fears and where Government interference in personal lives is receding steadily, many Beijing residents say one of the most profound changes in their society is the surge in divorce.
The divorce rate in Beijing leapt to 24.4 percent in 1994, more than double the 12 percent rate just four years ago, Beijing Youth Daily reported this month. Although statistics can be misleading -- the divorce rate is measured by comparing the number of marriages and divorces in a given year -- officials say it is rising all over China, and faster in cities than in the countryside.
The national divorce rate is now 10.4 percent, still far behind the United States, where the divorce rate rose sharply in the 1970's to around 50 percent, where it has remained.
The United Nations conference on women, to be held here from Sept. 4 to 15, is expected to draw attention to the social and economic ills facing women in China and elsewhere.
Yet for women in Beijing, the growing divorce rate is a reflection of a new social and economic freedom, of the rising expectations that women bring to marriage, and of damaging effects from what many Beijing residents say is a remarkable increase in adulterous affairs. More than 70 percent of divorces are now initiated by women, divorce lawyers say, and the most common reason given is that a husband has had an affair.
"Only a few years ago, people would let a temple be destroyed before they would let a marriage fail," said Pi Xiaoming, a leading divorce lawyer whose work at the East Beijing Women's Federation used to involve applying intense pressure on couples not to divorce.
"We did everything possible to keep people from separating," Ms. Pi said. "If there was 1 percent chance of saving a marriage, we'd expend all our effort to overcome the 99 percent of difficulty."
Now, Ms. Pi and other Government officials who once actively opposed divorce support it as an acceptable alternative to an unhappy marriage, and a divorce that once took years to win approval can now be processed in three days if both side agree. Many officials even recognize a positive side of divorce.
"The high rate of divorce reflects a kind of 'master of my own fate' notion among urban residents," wrote the Beijing Youth Daily. "From an overall perspective, the high rate of divorce represents a kind of social advancement."
But the Government's shift in attitude is only one ingredient in the rising divorce rate. A larger one seems to be growing demands by women in an era of expanding opportunity.
"My husband used to say, 'You have your job, your study overseas, a roof over your head, what more do you want?' " said Liang Hua, 41, who divorced last year. "What I wanted was a husband who didn't sit at home all day, watching sports on television."
If most Chinese men still look for a stable home and a reliable mother for their children, several women in different professions agreed, women who used to be content with a steady family income now want more: romance, sex and affection.
"My husband never kissed me, not once," said Lan Ding, 40, a self-employed tailor who said she had divorced her husband, an air force officer, because of the way he treated her. "We had a child, but he never kissed me. I only learned how to do that much later."
One of the most popular books in Beijing this year is "The Bridges of Madison County," the American best seller whose story of a midlife affair that brings romance to a woman's life clearly struck a chord here. Several women said they had spent evenings sitting around with friends, debating whether the romance described in the book is possible in marriage.
"Before, marriage was very stable, but the quality was very low," said Wang Xingjuan, who listens to hundreds of complaints each month on the women's hot line she runs in Beijing. "It was something you did and didn't think about. Now, people have high expectations from marriage."
Ms. Wang also said that most Chinese women traditionally had sex only for the purpose of bearing children. But China's one-child policy, while resisted by many women in the countryside, has made urban women freer both to pursue careers and to pursue sex. "Now it's for pleasure, for health," Ms. Wang said.
Wu Liyong, 36, a director of a food products company in Beijing, said one of the causes of her divorce earlier this year, after 12 years of marriage, was an unsatisfactory sex life.
"We were taught that the man is the one to initiate sex," she said. "I didn't say anything for a long time. But when I finally talked about it with my friends, they told me I was stupid. I feel like I wasted 10 years."
If China's economic reforms have brought greater independence to women in some ways -- more choice of career, place to live, husband, lover -- they have also brought women a greater danger of unemployment than men face.
At the same time, the loosening of Government control has also meant a resurgence of traditional attitudes among men: that money means access to women.
"Men like to see women as objects," said Feng Yuan, a journalist at China Women's News who has written extensively on how social changes affect women. "They feel that the more they achieve, the more ability or charisma they have."
A 32-year-old man who works for a securities company in Shanghai said that he was faithful to his wife during the three years they dated before marriage, but that he started having affairs about six months afterward.
"Chinese men need other women," said the man, who added that many of his friends feel the same way. "Family life is one thing; life outside is another. You don't have to hide it; everyone at work knows who my girlfriend is."
Part of the broader problem, both women and men say, is that Chinese society does not teach men to treat their wives well.
"My husband was a good worker, a good son to his parents, a good father to his son and a terrible husband," said Ms. Lan, the woman who divorced an air force officer. "That's what our society teaches men to do."
Ms. Feng, the journalist, thinks that one of several causes of the rising divorce rate is the influx of books and movies from the West.
"Ten years ago, the Government blamed affairs on 'bourgeois liberalization,' " a code for Western influence, she said. "But it was counterproductive because it made a lot of people think, now that capitalism is O.K., that it's also O.K. to have affairs, too."
The current surge in divorce is not the first in modern China. The 1950 Constitution and a new marriage law, which redefined rights within families, encouraged a wave of divorces in the early 1950's. Many of these were initiated by Communist army soldiers who, after their victory in 1949, moved to cities and divorced wives they had married in rural hometowns but abandoned during the long years of war.
At the start of the Cultural Revolution in 1966, when millions of lives were shattered by accusations of political incorrectness, many people were forced to divorce a spouse for political reasons. After that period of turmoil ended in 1976, many others divorced spouses they had married in unusual circumstances, though no reliable statistics have been kept on what the divorce rates were at that time, Ms. Feng said.
For all the women who have divorced, there are countless more who have considered it but been unable or unwilling to do so.
At the women's hot line, run out of a small office in central Beijing, a recent caller described herself as a 31-year-old doctor who has been married to a businessman eight years and has a small daughter.
When she discovered that her husband was having an affair, she asked for a divorce. He refused, saying that he wanted to stay married for the sake of their child, and tried to soothe his wife by saying he would buy them a new house and give her a car of her own, still a rarity in China.
"I don't know what do," said the woman, who can still win a divorce if she demonstrates that she is incompatible with her husband. "I want to rely on myself, but I don't want to have a less comfortable life."
Ms. Lan said she urged many of her friends not to follow her example, because of the economic difficulty she has had raising a son on her own, and because of the hard time she has had finding another man.
"A lot of people still see a divorced woman as immoral, but see a divorced man as fine." Ms. Lan said.
As for her son, Wang Xiyue, 14, Ms. Lan used to worry that he would be the only student in his class whose parents are divorced. She doesn't worry any more.
"There are six of them now," she said, affectionately rubbing a hand over his head. "It's getting more and more common."

GRAPHIC: Photo: China's divorce rate has increased sharply, particularly in large cities. Lan Ding, 40, a self-employed tailor in Beijing, said her son, Wang Xiyue, 14, is one of six students in his class whose parents are divorced. (Xing Danwen for The New York Times) (pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (98%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (97%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (98%); BEIJING, CHINA (97%); 

SUBJECT: DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WOMEN; ADULTERY DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (92%); TRENDS (90%); WOMEN (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); FAMILY LAW (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); CITIES (67%); APPROVALS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



418 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1761 words

HEADLINE: Healthy Korean Economy Draws Immigrants Home

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

 BODY:
Four years ago, Chang Hyeok Soo began making plans to leave Korea and move to the United States. He wanted to echo the success of his sister and brother-in-law, who had built a comfortable home in New Jersey and a thriving trading company in Manhattan.
But Korea's economic explosion made Mr. Chang, 29, change his mind. He took a trainee job with a Korean oil company and, in only a few years, his salary more than doubled. 
 Thirteen time zones away from Seoul, pinched between the handbag racks and costume jewelry cases in his Washington Heights shop, Suzy's Accessories II, Cha Soon Giel is closing up and returning to Korea after 23 years in New York. Rent increases and an ailing mother back home have persuaded him it is time to leave.
"I'm here, the mom-and-pop owner, and I am not sure I can make it much longer," said Mr. Cha, 53. "And since my mother country is now changing a lot, I will be happy to go back and see if there is a good opportunity there."
As Koreans poured into this country over the last two decades, their entrepreneurial energy transformed whole neighborhoods in New York and other cities. Now, with the burgeoning economy in Korea providing more opportunities there, Koreans have fewer reasons to move to the United States. And thousands of Koreans who raised families and built businesses here are returning to their homeland, some of them driven away by economic difficulties and others parlaying success in this country into better jobs in Korea.
Over the last five years, the number of people in South Korea who received immigration visas to the United States has fallen by more than half, from about 25,500 in 1990 to about 10,800 in 1994, according to the Bureau of Consular Affairs of the State Department. The flow of people returning to Korea jumped after the Seoul Olympics in 1988, according to the Korean Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which reported that in each of the last four years, between 5,000 and 6,500 people have gone back, compared with about 800 in 1980.
In 1987, the peak year for Korean immigration to the United States, one Korean moved back for roughly every 10 of the more than 30,000 who got visas to move to the United States. Last year, however, one person returned for about every two who came, the ministry reported.
Those who are returning say they are motivated by a cultural, social and economic stew of hopes and dissatisfactions. Some say they have never felt completely comfortable with the English language and the American culture, which many see as too unruly and informal. Others have become increasingly concerned about racial friction, violence and crime. And some want to contribute to the return of democracy in Seoul, where the military government was toppled in 1987.
But underscoring it all is the economic dynamism of Korea over the last five years and the recent recession in the United States. Seoul is becoming a major player in the global trading game. The value of its exports was the 12th largest in the world last year, according to International Monetary Fund reports.
The country's prosperity, however, has had one drawback for Koreans who want to return: Some say they can't afford to because apartments are getting so expensive.
 
Glass Ceiling For Professionals
 Still, many Koreans, especially men who shunted their professional backgrounds to become merchants here, felt they could never achieve the social status they once had in Korea. Even some Koreans who have achieved considerable success here said they felt it would be difficult to rise higher in American companies, while their knowledge of English and the United States made them highly prized in Korea.
A gift shop owner from the Chicago suburbs has a contract to open an American coffee franchise in downtown Seoul. A professor at Cornell University Medical Center became chairman of the life sciences department at a Korean university, and staffed his entire department with Korean-American professors.
A second-generation Korean-American said he would probably move to Korea after graduation from law school because "a Harvard law degree goes much further in Korea than it does in America."
Even Mr. Chang's father-in-law, Suk K. Lee, who was chairman of the Korean-American Chamber of Commerce in New York, returned to Korea a few years ago to start a cable television company with other "Korean-New Yorkers."
And the governors of two of Korea's nine provinces were, until recently, American citizens: an economics professor from Rutgers University and a businessman who spent 20 years selling handbags and wigs in Manhattan. The businessman, Kim Hyuk Kyu, is already bringing a touch of New York to South Kyongsang Province. One of his first steps will be to paint all the taxicabs yellow.
"The reason people move is what's going on at home," said Philip Kasinitz, a sociology professor at Hunter College. "What's going on at home is the Korean economy is so strong that it's attracting the people who both have made it here and those who can't make it."
It is not clear how many Korean small businesses in New York are failing. Some merchants close one store and later open another. But these days, Korean dry cleaners, groceries and other small businesses are bumping up against a market they helped saturate, Dr. Kasinitz said.
"Pick stores in any neighborhood and ask them how business is," said Sung Soo Kim, the president of the Korean American Small Business Service Center of New York, in Flushing, Queens. "Half of them will say it's break-even or getting worse."
Stephen Lynton, a research associate with the Columbia University Center for Korean Research, said Korean businesses "fail all the time because Koreans tend to migrate toward high-risk businesses. Some people just give up and go home."
Some of those who give up feel great embarrassment. Mr. Cha said one friend who is moving back because his Washington Heights store is in trouble "is ashamed to admit that he was not accepted here."
But as many or more of those who are returning to Korea are not abandoning failure, but building on their successes in this country.
 
Comfort of Home Is Part of the Draw
 Until last year, Jhinu Christopher Jung was a lawyer in midtown Manhattan, working mostly for Korean-American clients. He was putting together a new law firm with about 10 other lawyers.
"All of a sudden I realized that I really didn't want to do that," Mr. Jung, 40, said in a telephone interview from Seoul, where he is setting up an international consulting firm. "In New York, I was becoming a sort of community lawyer -- divorces, minor criminal matters, small business claims. But I wanted to do more international work and I felt I was sort of trapped. I felt that in the long run, if I were in Korea, I would be much better positioned than if I was in New York."
There was another reason, too.
"I'm perfectly comfortable in New York," said Mr. Jung, who came to the United States when he was 14 and speaks excellent English. "But in some ways I felt culturally, linguistically and traditionally that I was much more Korean than I ever realized before."
Some of those who return to Korea say they always dreamed of retiring to their homeland after they raised children and educated them in American schools. And some are fulfilling Korean traditions of filial responsibility, taking care of elderly parents back home.
Others said that the Los Angeles riots and robberies of Korean stores in New York have made them more aware of racial conflicts and what they see as a lack of police responsiveness.
"After the L.A. riots, we have to live in a sort of racial tension, you know," said Mr. Cha. "In Korea, we are homogeneous, only one race. We never had experience living with others."
 
Korean Work Ethic Left Mark on City
The wave of Korean immigration in the 1970's and 1980's transformed cities like New York as few other recent immigrant groups have. Koreans, many of them highly educated professionals in their own country, seemed to patent a brand of hard work and enterprise that turned blocks in Harlem and Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, and whole neighborhoods like Flushing, into bustling quarters of commerce.
Korean immigrants virtually invented the nail salon and reinvented the corner grocery -- adding salad bars, deli counters, and bunches upon bunches of colored carnations and gladioluses.
"The Korean population has had a very substantial impact, a disproportionate impact because of its rate of self-employment," said Mitchell L. Moss, director of the Taub Urban Research Institute of New York University. "They succeeded beyond all standards and expectations, very rapidly."
Other immigrant groups have left the United States when changes in their native countries made it possible or advantageous to return, Dr. Moss and other sociologists said. They predicted that the Korean impact on New York will not really diminish, but over the years is likely to change.
Members of other immigrant groups will probably take over some Korean stores. The children of Korean immigrants, many of them well educated, are likely to move into professional fields like law, technology and international trade. And Koreans will increasingly leave the cities.
"They're already moving out to the suburbs when they can," said Dr. Lynton. "It used to be that Koreans were very focused in urban population areas. Now, they're everywhere, even the smallest towns."
In some families, men have returned to Korea while their wives stay here until the children complete school.
Moon In Soon, who is leaving Northbrook, Ill., to set up a Gloria Jean's Gourmet Coffee franchise in Seoul, said that like many other reverse immigrants she is keeping her American citizenship.
"Since I have lived here more than 20 years, I am not purely Korean anymore," Mrs. Moon said. "I've adopted a lot of American ways of thinking. And Korea is a real male-dominated society."
Some repatriates have had trouble adjusting. But things are getting easier. "The international community in Korea is getting rather large," said Dr. Lynton, "so that people who move back do not feel as alienated as they did before."
Others are facing unexpected challenges.
Mr. Kim, for example, the governor of South Kyongsang Province, said taxi drivers are vigorously opposed to his efforts to transplant a bit of the flavor of midtown Manhattan.
"They do not like the brightness of the color yellow," Mr. Kim said. "They are saying it is not very healthy, that it hurts the vision."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cha Soon Giel is closing up shop and moving back to Korea after 23 years in New York. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) (pg. A1); In Seoul, South Korea, lawyer Jhinu Christopher Jung strolls through Toksu Palace in the rain. He formerly practiced in midtown Manhattan. (pg. B4)
 
Graph: "ADDING IT UP: Korean Immigration, or the Lack of It"
 The number of Koreans in New York City more than tripled from 1980 to 1990, but since then Korean immigration has fallen steadily. Graphs track number of immigration visas issued to people in Korea and number of Koreans who immigrated to New York City, during the years running from 1990 through 1994. (Sources: Bureau of Consular Affairs, the State Department; New York City Department of City Planning) (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); 

COUNTRY: NORTHERN ASIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; NORTHERN ASIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; KOREAN-AMERICANS IMMIGRATION (90%); TRENDS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); FAMILY (76%); VIOLENT CRIME (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (68%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (67%); REFUGEES (64%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (63%); ASIAN AMERICANS (58%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM CHANG HYEOK SOO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



419 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: A Former Governor Cancels Radio Show

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Aug. 21

 BODY:
L. Douglas Wilder, a former Virginia Governor and onetime Presidential candidate who was part of a wave of unemployed politicians who started radio talk shows this year, today canceled his program, which had never made money or found a national audience.
Mr. Wilder, who in 1989 became the first black to be elected governor of any state, began the show in January and will have his last broadcast on Aug. 31. The show was heard for two hours each weekday morning on eight stations in Virginia, and one each in Washington and Baltimore. 
 Mr. Wilder, 64, gleefully needled and grilled such guests as Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna E. Shalala and the musician Bruce Hornsby.
In ending the show, he cited "excessive demands on his time." He is scheduled to teach classes at two universities this fall, for which he will receive more than $50,000. Mr. Wilder also plans to write a book about the historical roots of contemporary problems.
Carl E. McNeill, the general manager of the show's flagship station, WRVA-AM in Richmond, said the program broke even.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (54%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (54%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION GOVERNORS (91%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MUSIC (72%); 

PERSON: WILDER, L DOUGLAS LAWRENCE DOUGLAS 'DOUGLAS' WILDER (94%); BRUCE HORNSBY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



420 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Industries Oppose Emission Proposals

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
American manufacturers are urging the Clinton Administration not to make any early new commitment to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and other "greenhouse gases" as a new round of international talks begins in Geneva.
The talks, which opened yesterday and are expected to last two weeks, are the first round in a negotiation that is to last two years and is expected to produce new worldwide emission-control targets. Many fear greenhouse gases are warming the atmosphere to unhealthy levels. 
 In a letter to Secretary of State Warren Christopher earlier this month, an association embracing virtually all major American manufacturerers called the Global Climate Coalition argued that proposals in Geneva could result in "significant harm to the U.S. economy and U.S. competitiveness."
It specifically attacked one by a group of 38 small island nations that fear they would be flooded if rising temperatures melted the polar ice caps and raised ocean levels. Such island nations as Fiji and Madagascar want the industrialized world by the year 2005 to cut back greenhouse-gas emissions another 20 percent below their 1990 levels.
Instead, the American manufacturers called for the Administration to study the potential impact on economic growth, competitiveness and trade flows of any further emission reductions beyond that already agreed to by industrialized countries at the United Nations' Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro three years ago, when they agreed to reduce them to 1990 levels by the year 2000. At the time, the Bush Administration would not agree to those guidelines, but the Clinton Administration has since pledged that the United States would meet them.
"Of particular concern to the members of the Global Climate Coalition is the urgent need for a plan and timetable for a thorough analysis of the potential impacts on economic growth, trade competitiveness and jobs in the U.S. and how they compare to the impact on nations in Asia and Europe that compete with the U.S.," the letter says.
But it noted with regret that the Administration had warned that efforts to cut the Federal budget deficit make it "unlikely that money would be available in fiscal year 1996 for adequate analysis."
The letter to Secretary of State Christopher is signed, among others, by the presidents or chief executives of the American Automobile Manufacturers Association, the American Forest and Paper Association, the Chemical Manufacturers Association and the National Mining Association.
"We live in a very competitive world," said John Shlaes, the coalition's executive director. "What are presented as environmental issues are really economic and trade issues we do not yet fully understand."
But a senior State Department official involved in the climate negotiations insisted that the United States wanted a detailed analysis of the economic impact of any new reduction pledge. "Industry seems afraid we're going to rush into signing things; we're not," he said.
The agreement by industrialized nations to cut carbon-dioxide emissions, which are caused by burning fossil fuels, to 1990 levels by the end of the century is part of a document known as the Framework Convention on Climate Change, which about 170 countries have signed.
But at a meeting of these nations in Berlin in April, the industrialized world conceded that with the possible exception of Germany and Britain, it had little chance of achieving that goal.
Instead, these countries made a new commitment, known as the Berlin Mandate, under which they would try to set new emission targets for the years after 2000 by 1997.
Though the scientific evidence for global warming is still inconclusive, the decision reflects a broad agreement that reducing output of greenhouse gases is a sensible precaution until more is known about their effect on the climate.
The Berlin Mandate also specifically provides for the negotiators to examine a proposal by the Alliance of Small Island States under which the industrialized world would be required to cut emissions 20 percent more below the 2000 target level by 2005, with possible additional reductions in 2010 and 2020.
But the senior State Department official called the plan "barely credible when we can't even get to 1990 emission levels by 2000."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (92%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (88%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (54%); 

COMPANY: GLOBAL CLIMATE COALITION AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS.COM INC (92%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS EXPORT GROUP (92%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS MUTUAL INSURANCE CO (85%); CHEMICAL MANUFACTURERS LTD (51%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GLOBAL CLIMATE COALITION UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); SWITZERLAND (92%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (88%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (54%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AIR POLLUTION; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; CARBON DIOXIDE GREENHOUSE GASES (94%); EMISSIONS (93%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); CHEMICALS (78%); CHEMICALS MFG (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%); MINES & MINING (50%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



421 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
I.M.F. Blames Mexicans for Flight of Peso

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 21

 BODY:
The collapse of the Mexican peso last winter came after Mexican investors sent billions of dollars out of the country, the International Monetary Fund has concluded.
"The available data show that the pressure on Mexico's foreign exchange reserves during 1994, and in particular just prior to the devaluation, came not from the flight of foreign investors or from speculative position-taking by these investors, but from Mexican residents," the fund said in its annual report on global financial markets. 
 Many private economists have attributed the peso's collapse to a sharp drop in foreign investment in Mexico during 1994, and raised the possibility that foreigners had pulled their money out late in the year. But the monetary fund, while acknowledging the weakness in foreign investment, said that Mexicans were mainly responsible for sending money out of the country.
Clinton Administration officials last winter emphasized the importance of foreign investors who took money out of the country after the peso's devaluation, but said relatively little about who moved money before the devaluation. Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Lawrence H. Summers said today that he was not surprised by the I.M.F.'s conclusion that Mexican investors had played a big role.
The fund's report could create problems for the Administration when Congress returns from its August recess. It leaves the Administration open to criticism that in leading a nearly $50 billion international rescue program, it poured a vast amount of money into a country whose own citizens had little faith in their financial future.
But the International Monetary Fund also did the Administration a favor by strongly agreeing with its argument at the time that a financial rescue was necessary to limit the spread of Mexico's troubles to markets in other developing countries. The rescue, in which the I.M.F. took part, "was instrumental in containing further spillovers into emerging markets in the Western Hemisphere and Asia," the report said.
The book-length document concluded that "the massive international financial support package for Mexico, put together in January 1995, prevented further erosion of confidence and forestalled stronger contagion."
A Treasury official said some evidence now suggested that Mexican residents did send large sums of money abroad before the peso's plunge. But the official, who insisted on anonymity, added that foreigners might also have been trying to take assets out of the country but were unable to do so.
The foreign investors' efforts, though unsuccessful, might have driven the peso down further, the official contended.
Some prominent Mexicans have long believed that their compatriots played a role in the peso's drop. "Mexican money began to leave first," said Luis German Carcoba on Dec. 30, 1994. Mr. Carcoba was then president of the Business Coordinating Council, the premier group of Mexican executives, and he condemned the capital flight at the time as "shameful."
The International Monetary Fund's report also reached these other conclusions:
*Japanese bank regulators may have allowed their country's financial troubles to worsen by not acting decisively to take over weak banks and credit unions or force their merger with stronger institutions. "The failure to deal early on with problems at the smaller institutions may have increased significantly the number of cases where intervention was needed," the report said.
*The failure early this year of Barings P.L.C. of Britain, brought down by trading losses in Singapore, shows the need for better international regulation. Still, regulators were successful in preventing Barings' problems from spreading around the world.
The International Monetary Fund distributed some copies of the report to financial experts earlier this month, with the condition that news organizations not report on it until Sunday evening. The agency later suspended distribution of the report after printing problems arose. The Washington Post and The Financial Times published articles on the report in today's issues, prompting the I.M.F. to issue more copies.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) LAWRENCE H STEIN (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US FOREIGN INVESTMENT (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); DEVALUATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TRENDS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BRADSHER, KEITH LAWRENCE SUMMERS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



422 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Prices Climb on Hopes The Fed Will Cut Rates Again

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Bond prices rose in thin trading yesterday, reflecting optimism among a few buyers ahead of today's meeting of the Federal Reserve.
Some traders attributed the early gains largely to a Washington Post article on Saturday that said the Federal Reserve could act to lower interest rates at the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, its policy-making arm, because the inflation outlook is positive. The article said such a move was unlikely but possible. 
 Most analysts expect the Fed to leave interest rates unchanged. With inflation steady and growth picking up, the analysts said, the central bank has no reason to tinker with its policy. It reduced rates on July 6 for the first time in nearly three years.
At last month's meeting, the Fed policy makers cut the Federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans, by a quarter point. But they left the discount rate, which the Fed charges for loans to banks, unchanged.
There was speculative buying yesterday in the shorter maturities, which are most affected by Fed policy changes, and it managed to push up two-year and five-year Treasury notes as well. But most of the gains were magnified by the thin volume.
The 30-year bond price rose 13/32 , to 1003/32 for a yield of 6.87 percent, down from 6.90 percent on Friday.
Charles Roden, managing director and head of fixed-income investing at Josephthal, Lyon & Ross, said that from the way bonds were trading, it would appear that "everything is good and there are no problems in the world anymore."
Unfortunately, he said, the Fed, "which has worked very hard to stabilize the dollar, does not want to do anything that will upset the apple cart." Another factor to consider, he said, is that there is an unusually large amount of cash sitting on the sidelines, as a result of uncertainty about where rates are headed, and that will have to be put to work.
Mr. Roden sees better value in the shorter-term securities.
Another factor weighing on the market, which may also have persuaded investors to trade cautiously, was the rise in commodity prices to the highest level since October 1990. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodity prices gained 2.59 points, to close at 239.92. A large gain in the index can be a precursor of inflation pressures, which decrease the value of fixed-income products. The gains are being led by oil, cotton, grains and silver, which was up for the fourth consecutive day as stockpiles continued to drop.
At the Treasury's weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills, rates rose to their highest levels since late July. The two maturities both had an average rate of 5.43 percent, which market analysts interpreted as reflecting the expectation that the Fed would lower rates some time this year.
The two-year note improved in when-issued trading yesterday. It was offered at a price-to-yield 6.08 percent, while the five-year issue, being sold on Wednesday, was offered at a price-to-yield 6.31 percent.
In the municipal bond market, Michael S. Appelbaum, senior vice president-investments at Paine Webber Inc., said the market had been weighed down by several factors, including a short-term supply surge, as well as continued fallout from the Orange County, Calif., default. "However, the single biggest catalyst behind the narrowing of spreads between the tax-exempt and taxable markets has been the prospects of a radical tax reform plan which greatly impacts the municipal market," he said.
"Although we believe the odds of passing the most radical proposals are low," Mr. Appelbaum said, "tax reform will continue to cast a pall over the municipal market for some time."
Investors expect to see higher yields on many of the $1.5 billion in bonds scheduled to be sold this week.
The New York State Thruway Authority's $235 million of revenue bonds will be the week's largest debt offering, managed by Paine Webber, while Georgia's competitive offering of $227 million in general obligation bonds is expected to be in demand because of the Aaa rating by Moody's Investors Service and the AA+ rating by Standard & Poor's.
Traders said investors in short-term securities would have a chance to buy $2.6 billion in notes this week; $2.4 billion of them would be sold by Texas in competitive sales.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three-month and six-month bills:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.612	97.255	Discounted Rate	5.43%	5.43%	Coupon Yield	5.60%	5.68%	High Price	98.620	97.260	Discounted Rate	5.40%	5.42%	Coupon Yield	5.57%	5.67%	Low Price	98.612	97.250	Discounted Rate	5.43%	5.44%	Coupon Yield	5.60%	5.69%	Accepted at low price	53%	13%	Total applied for	$52,392,301	$51,506,629	Accepted	$12,121,366	$12,108,074	Noncompetitive	$1,541,553	$1,378,624	
 
Both issues are dated Aug. 24, 1995. The three-month bills mature on Nov. 24, 1995, and the six-month bills mature on Feb. 22, 1996.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows their average discounted rate from 5/95 to 8/95 (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (54%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BONDS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COTTON MARKETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INTERBANK LENDING (68%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



423 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: A Free Shuttle Bus for Downtown Manhattan

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
Cynthia Welsh did not even have time to do the tourist's "Where am I?" head-swivel. No sooner had she stepped off a ferry from Hoboken, N.J., yesterday afternoon at the edge of Battery Park City than a small bus pulled up and took her, free of charge, to her destination, South Street Seaport.
Mrs. Welsh, a 40-year-old visitor from Jamaica, did not know that she was among the first to take advantage of the Downtown Loop, inaugurated yesterday and billed by city officials and downtown merchants as the city's first regularly scheduled free shuttle service. 
 "It's great that they have it," Mrs. Welsh said, gazing at the sights of the financial district from one of the 25 plush seats aboard the air-conditioned jitney. "Where I come from, you don't have this variety of modes of transportation."
At a time when the Transit Authority is cutting back service because of financial trouble, the new bus service is being paid for not by the public sector but by a private business group. The Alliance for Downtown New York, the lower Manhattan business improvement district, which is financing the service, hopes that thousands of other people are as eager as Mrs. Welsh to use it.
"Currently, it is extremely difficult to get around downtown, particularly east to west," said Carl Weisbrod, president of the alliance, a coalition of downtown businesses. "There are subway lines and bus lines to get you in and out of downtown, but not for within downtown. A downtown bus service will knit together a lot of downtown's great strengths, from the Staten Island ferry to the World Trade Center to the Statue of Liberty ferry to South Street Seaport to Battery Park City."
He said downtown businesses hope that the free shuttle will encourage tourists and the 375,000 people who work below Chambers Street to do more shopping and that it will help turn the area into more of an after-hours district. The bus will run from 7 A.M. to 10 P.M. on weekdays, from 10 A.M. to 9 P.M. on Saturday and from 10 A.M. to 7 P.M. on Sunday.
"It also greatly enhances the potential of ferry service because it allows people to get off the Hoboken ferry and take a bus to the East Side of lower Manhattan," he said. "And it enhances the prospects for ferry service from Queens and Brooklyn to lower Manhattan."
In its master plan for downtown, released last December, the Giuliani administration endorsed the idea of a downtown shuttle service, and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, along with several other city officials, was on hand for the start of the service yesterday.
Most of the first-day riders were tourists, but proponents are confident that will change. "I didn't hear about it, but, yeah, I would use it," said Carl Slater, 28, a salesman taking an iced-tea break on Broadway.
The loop route runs from Battery Park City and the World Financial Center, south on West Street and east on Liberty Street as far as Water Street at rush hour and to South Street at other times. It goes south on Water Street to Battery Park, to West Street and north again.
The shuttle is being run by New York Waterway, which runs ferries from Hoboken, Weehawken and Jersey City and has begun to advertise the service aboard its boats. The company is being paid $25,000 a month by the alliance.
Mr. Weisbrod called the service a trial run, to be evaluated in 90 days, but he said, "We're fairly optimistic we'll continue it in some fashion."

GRAPHIC: Map shows new bus route. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ALLIANCE FOR DOWNTOWN NEW YORK STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE FOR DOWNTOWN NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; BUSES SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FERRIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



424 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: Decline in Federal Spending Narrows U.S. Budget Deficit

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 21

 BODY:
The Federal budget deficit narrowed in July from a year earlier as Government spending slowed and revenue increased, the Treasury said today.
The $13.6 billion deficit for July was 59 percent smaller than the $33.2 billion gap in July 1994. Analysts had been expecting a $24.3 billion deficit. 
 "Spending was well contained," especially for the military, said Astrid Adolfson, an economist at MCM Money Watch in New York. Some of the revenue gain came from Federal Communications Commission radio spectrum sales that closed in June and were posted in July, Mr. Adolfson said.
Over all, July's figures stand in sharp contrast to just a month earlier. In June, the Government posted a revised budget surplus of $12.8 billion, reflecting quarterly tax returns. Previously, June was reported as a surplus of $13.6 billion.
The Treasury reports a deficit most months because the Government usually spends more money than it receives. Lately, however, the budget news has been upbeat. Through the first 10 months of fiscal 1995, which began on Oct. 1, 1994, the Federal deficit totaled $137.2 billion, down from $183.1 billion the previous fiscal year.
In the months ahead, though, the sluggish pace of the economy will probably depress tax revenue. The decreased tax income, paired with increased spending on social programs, is going to push the Treasury further into the red unless lawmakers and the White House can agree on a budget plan, analysts said.
In July, the 10th month of fiscal 1995, receipts including taxes, fees, and other income, totaled $92.7 billion, up 9.3 percent, from $84.8 billion a year earlier. Expenses totaled $106.3 billion, down 9.9 percent, from $118 billion a year earlier.
The budget deficit for the current fiscal year is on target to total about $159.98 billion, according to Clinton Administration projections.
The Congressional Budget Office expects a deficit of $160 billion to $165 billion. Even at $165 billion, the fiscal 1995 deficit would be the smallest deficit since fiscal 1989.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (93%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (56%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



425 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: First to College, Then the Mill

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

DATELINE: GHENT, Ky.

 BODY:
After five years of study, William Weigel earned a master's degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Louisville in May. A few weeks later, he started work at a steel mill, running a machine that casts liquid steel into solid slabs.
Despite steel's image as an industry where strong backs are more useful than strong brains, Mr. Weigel has plenty of high-technology company. About 40 percent of the roughly 200 factory workers at the Gallatin Steel Company here have college degrees, mostly in mechanical engineering or metallurgy, and an additional 20 percent have two-year degrees. 
 It is just such highly educated workers, company officials say, who are needed to operate the computerized systems at this recently built mill. "This plant is the Starship Enterprise of the steel industry," said Milan Kosanovich, the president of Gallatin, which is a venture of the Canadian steelmakers Dofasco Inc. and Co-Steel Inc. "With 200 people we will produce as much steel as it used to take 5,000 people to make."
The mill, on an old tobacco farm near the south bank of the Ohio River, may be an extreme case, but it is clearly a sign of the times: As manufacturing has become more automated, workers' skills have had to increase. And the streamlining of corporate America has cut the number of entry-level office positions, making a good factory job look a lot better.
"In this economy, $19-an-hour jobs with good benefits are a lot more desirable than a few years ago" for college-educated workers, said Harley Shaiken, a professor with the Institute of Industrial Relations at the University of California at Berkeley.
Today, many more people with education beyond high school are working on factory floors. Government figures showed that almost 5 percent of production workers last year were college graduates while another 16 percent had some college education. Those figures compare with just 2.8 percent and 11.2 percent, respectively, a decade earlier.
And the whole educational level of the factory work force has been upgraded. In 1984, only 40 percent of all production workers had graduated from high school, compared with more than 71 percent last year. Similar, more modest gains have occurred among skilled production and craft workers.
Consider the Allegheny Ludlum Corporation, a specialty-steel producer based in Pittsburgh. "Of the last 152 people we have hired for blue-collar jobs, 80 percent had more than a high school diploma," said Robert P. Bozzone, vice chairman. "Of that, 15 have college degrees and 86 have two-year degrees. I'm sort of flabbergasted. Twenty years ago we had to battle to get high school equivalents."
Well-educated workers are turning up on assembly lines as well as in steel mills. At the Ford Motor Company, virtually all the plant-floor workers hired in recent years have high school diplomas or more, and the percentage of college graduates has risen sharply, from 1.2 percent in the mid-1980's to 4.7 percent in the last two years.
Money is clearly a lure. Mr. Bozzone reported that the average plant-floor worker at Allegheny Ludlum made $42,000 last year, and auto workers' pay is in that range as well. At Gallatin, bonuses for education, production and company profits can lift an engineer's pay above $50,000 in a good year, company officials said.
Not that recent graduates foresee whole careers on the plant floor. Many young engineers at Gallatin Steel say they see the mill as a form of graduate school, one that will lift them up the career ladder faster than all those recent graduates stuck in often-boring management trainee programs.
"I'm getting exposure to the management of new technology, and that has got to help anywhere I go," said Mr. Weigel, who is 26. "I'm stationed in the control pulpit, but I'm constantly going out to get a feel for what's happening on the floor."
And Matthew McKnight, a 32-year-old coiler operator at Gallatin with a degree in industrial management, also has other aspirations. For now, however, he is busy figuring out better ways to operate the warehouse and enjoys the fact that his job is close to home.
As economic opportunities have been shrinking, technical requirements in manufacturing have been increasing. "Manufacturers are taking as much touch labor out of the process as they possibly can, so the systems will become more complex and demanding," said Douglas E. Olesen, president of the Battelle Memorial Institute, a private research company in Columbus, Ohio.
That's just part of the equation. "Companies are faced with the increasingly rapid obsolescence of products, so they have to develop new products faster," Mr. Olesen said. "You need manufacturing people who can be part of new-product development teams as well."
Speaking more broadly, Robert B. Reich, the Labor Secretary, said in an interview that computerization had transformed manufacturing. "We are seeing the emergence of the white-collar factory," he said.
He said the notion of large numbers of people tending machines in manufacturing plants was outmoded. "Robots and computers are doing most of the monitoring now, and there are very few people standing around," he said. "The people in the factory are often involved in engineering design and customer application engineering."
At Gallatin, Kristen Anderson, 29, is putting her metallurgical education to work overseeing the use of fire-resistant bricks that line the mill's furnace and other equipment handling liquid steel. "My job is to hold down the cost of bricks by using the right type of bricks for the job," she said. "If we are going through bricks too fast, I've got to find a solution."
Ms. Anderson, who graduated from the Colorado School of Mines, is convinced that her experience, first as a furnace operator and now as a materials manager, will help her land other jobs later. "Companies are more likely to hire someone who has hands-on experience," she said.
Mr. Kosanovich, Gallatin's president, argues that he is helping the young engineers by giving them operating experience while their education is still clear in their minds. "I am convinced that people just out of college are among the worst-utilized human assets," he said. "They go into trainee programs, and by the time they get into the work force, their skills have atrophied."
By operating sophisticated equipment that can turn a pile of scrap into a coil of steel in just a few hours, they are being immersed in the practical application of concepts they learned in college, Mr. Kosanovich said. "We want them to work on the stuff they studied," he said.
Of course, making steel is still hot, hard, sometimes dangerous work in a plant that usually operates round the clock, seven days a week. But Gallatin officials said they did not try to disguise this reality. "There were a few people who did not hear what we were saying," said Brett Guge, the human resources director. They did not last long.
In the plant, it is impossible to distinguish the engineers from other workers. All wear light blue shirts, dark blue pants and orange safety helmets. When something breaks or has to be adjusted, the engineers get their hands just as dirty as other workers.
The company has blurred social distinctions in an effort to head off any tension between those workers who have college degrees and those who do not. Paul Stevens, who joined Gallatin after 21 years of tending ships' boilers in the Navy, compared the recent graduates to young ensigns. "My attitude is that they have something to offer, but that I have something to offer as well," he said. "I'm a reality check to their theory."
Other companies seem to be following the pattern of staffing their new mills with small numbers of well-trained young people who are expected to operate without much supervision. Ipsco Inc., which is building a steel mill near Davenport, Iowa, hired 27 college graduates as its first employee group and sent them to a plant in Canada for training.
Trico, a joint venture of LTV Steel, British Steel and Sumitomo Metal Industries, is also seeking well-educated workers for an advanced mini-mill that it is building near Decatur, Ala. Kenneth L. Pohl, Trico's vice president for human resources, does not have a specific target for the educational level of the work force, but he knows what he is looking for.
"We want folks who already know a lot and have demonstrated the ability to learn," he said. "We will teach them what they need to know, pay them a lot and expect a lot from them."
Engineering educators see first jobs in places like steel mills as good experience for recent graduates. "That's a very intelligent thing to do, and that is the way the Japanese system works," said Harold J. Raveche, the president of the Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, N.J. "It represents a chance to put manufacturing higher on the ladder in the eyes of the engineering graduate."
John E. Hopcroft, dean of the college of engineering at Cornell University, said, "It is a good idea for people to understand how business works and it could accelerate their careers compared with sitting behind a desk somewhere."
Mr. Pohl of Trico said he had doubts that graduate engineers would be content to do shift work in a mill for more than a short time. "They may conclude before long that this is not the best use of their education," he said. "I'm not sure how good we would be at keeping them."
Mr. Kosanovich said he anticipated that most of the engineers in the Gallatin plant would move on. "Will people get tired and leave?" he said. "Yes. We expect turnover, but we should be able to replenish our ranks from the same sources on an ongoing basis."
He acknowledged that a rapidly changing work force was more expensive, primarily because of the costs of training new workers. "We think the rewards will be greater than the potential costs," he said. "But I'll admit it's still a theory. We have not proven it yet."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In its recently built mill in Ghent, Ky., Gallatin Steel employs highly educated workers to run computerized systems that produce coils of sheet steel. Here are three of those workers.; Kristen Anderson, 29, a graduate of the Colorado School of Mines, expects her experience as a materials manager to help her get other jobs.; Matthew McKnight, 32, is a coiler operator with a degree in industrial management from Eastern Kentucky University.; William Weigel, 26, who has a master's degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Louisville, operates a machine that casts liquid steel into solid slabs. (Photographs by J. Breck Smither for The New York Times) (pg. D1); Paul Stevens, who spent 21 years tending ships' boilers in the Navy, now works at the Gallatin Steel plant in Ghent, Ky. "I'm a reality check to their theory," he said of the recent college graduates with jobs at the mill. (J. Breck Smither for The New York Times) (pg. D7)
 
Graph: "From Ivy Halls to Factory Floors" shows the percentage of factory and specialized workers with some college or a college degree (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D7)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3441 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL (84%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (93%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALLEGHENY LUDLUM CORP; GALLATIN STEEL CO GERDAU LONG STEEL NORTH AMERICA (84%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GALLATIN STEEL CO (71%); DOFASCO INC (69%); ALLEGHENY LUDLUM CORP (62%); UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (91%); UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (91%); EASTERN KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); EASTERN KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALLEGHENY LUDLUM CORP; GALLATIN STEEL CO UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (91%); UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (91%); EASTERN KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); EASTERN KENTUCKY UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (93%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES IRON & STEEL MILLS (93%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); EXTRACTIVE METALLURGY (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MATERIALS SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); TOBACCO FARMING (66%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN WILLIAM WEIGEL (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



426 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: ON PRO FOOTBALL;
Jets Learn It Is Better to Receive Than Pass Up

BYLINE: By Timothy W. Smith 

 BODY:
After deciding that receivers Stevie Anderson and Orlando Parker -- who had 10 catches between them last season -- could not catch an I.R.T., the Jets released them yesterday. Now the Jets are in the market for a veteran receiver.
How could a team go from Al Toon, Rob Moore, Terance Mathis and Chris Burkett three years ago to Ryan Yarborough, Alan Allen, Curtis Ceaser and Tyrone Davis today? 
 O.K., Toon and Burkett retired. Mathis went to Atlanta as a free agent where he caught 111 passes for 11 touchdowns last season. Chalk all that up to the Pete Carroll regime. But the Rich Kotite regime traded Moore to Arizona for running back Ron Moore and a first-round pick in this year's draft.
In the Moore for Moore deal it looks as if the Jets got less. Rob Moore is having a good preseason for the Cardinals. On Sunday night he caught 10 passes for 99 yards and a touchdown in Arizona's 17-16 victory over the Bears. Ron Moore, meanwhile, has rushed for 48 yards on 19 carries, a 2.5 average.
 The Jets stood pat during free agency. They watched as the big fish swam by. Andre Rison went to Cleveland for a bundle ($17 million over five years). Michael Timpson signed with Chicago. Alvin Harper went to Tampa Bay. There is no sin in not being able to sign these guys for big dollars. At least 29 other teams were outbid in each situation.
But even the next level eluded the Jets. J. J. Birden and Nate Lewis landed in Atlanta. Within the American Football Conference East division, Miami snagged Randal Hill, Ricky Sanders and Gary Clark. Granted, Clark and Sanders, two members of the old Redskins' Posse, have some mileage on them, but you don't think the Jets wouldn't mind having either of them right now?
The Dolphins, who feel as if they are within an eyelash of getting to the Super Bowl, pulled out all the stops. Now, they have a formidable receiving corps of Hill, Clark, Sanders, Irving Fryar and O. J. McDuffie.
Maybe the wide receiver position wasn't that big a priority for the Jets. It was for the Dolphins. Now, the Jets will have to face that abundance of wideout talent in the season opener on Sept. 3 in Miami. Not to mention tight end Eric Green.
Even after the free-agent signing period there was a chance for the Jets to upgrade at the position. They deemed Webster Slaughter, a veteran who had played in Cleveland and Houston, a viable option. But they canceled a scheduled workout. Slaughter ended up signing with Kansas City. Go figure.
The Jets decided to wait. They wanted to see how their young receivers would fare in training camp before pressing to sign a veteran. That philosophy also must have been prevailing during the draft in which they passed on J. J. Stokes, the brilliant receiver from U.C.L.A., to select tight end Kyle Brady with the No. 9 pick.
Stokes went in the next pick to San Francisco, which jumped up in the draft on a trade with Cleveland. One could ask why the 49ers, who have dominating receivers already in Jerry Rice and John Taylor, would want to move up in the draft to get another receiver, and the Jets, who didn't have a single proven receiver, would pass on a can't-miss prospect.
You might as well ask why the 49ers have won five Super Bowl championships from 1981 to 1995, while the Jets have been spinning their wheels since 1969.
"San Francisco is on a never-ending quest to continually improve their team," said Ralph Cindrich, a Pittsburgh-based agent. "Their hat is always in the ring."
Cindrich said to the Jets' credit that they are also always exploring, always listening. But having information and doing something with it are two different things. The Jets knew that they didn't have an experienced receiver in training camp, yet they continued with their wait-and-see experiment.
One N.F.L. personnel person had a harsh evaluation of the two players the Jets released.
"Anderson was just an average guy by anyone's standards," he said. "He wasn't very fast and he looked just like he looked at Grambling. He hadn't shown any improvement. Parker had O.K. speed, but he was inconsistent as a receiver. He flashed a little bit, but not enough to be a threat."
Certainly, the Jets knew this. But they projected Anderson as a starter and held fast to their experiment with the youth brigade. It went poof! -- with Anderson and Parker going up in the smoke of the first cut. It was a risky move and it still might backfire.
 Now, the Jets are at the mercy of another team to make a trade or wait for trickle-down economics of the N.F.L. salary cap to work and get a veteran off the waiver wire. The Jets have stepped up their work on the phones in the last two weeks in an effort to trade for a veteran receiver. Cleveland is supposed to be interested in trading Michael Jackson and the Packers may release Mark Ingram. They are impressed with the rookie Antonio Freeman.
But at what price? The Jets anticipate making a trade for a veteran receiver before they play Cincinnati in their final preseason game.
This is something they should have done right after they traded away the best one they had to Arizona back in May. They would be one quality player closer to reaching Leon Hess's mandate to put a winner on the field this season.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); TAMPA, FL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS NEW YORK JETS (94%); CHICAGO BEARS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS NEW YORK JETS (94%); CHICAGO BEARS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); TAMPA, FL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); ATHLETES (74%); 

PERSON: SMITH, TIMOTHY W STEVIE ANDERSON (68%); ROB MOORE (62%); ORLANDO PARKER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



427 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: HARNESS RACING;
A Gambler of Passion and Mystery

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

 BODY:
Herve Filion pushed himself like no other harness driver around. Even after 40 years in the sport and a place in the Hall of Fame, he continued to race as often as 50 times a week. No one seemed to have a prayer of matching his record of victories -- 14,783 -- as long as the 55-year-old driver kept up that grueling pace.
Daniel P. Kramer had always been fascinated by drivers like Filion. As a young man growing up in an Orthodox Jewish home in Queens, he would rush out the door and head for the race track as soon as the Sabbath ended. He loved to bet, too, and made a bundle doing so. "For me," he once said, "the track was and still is an intoxicating place." 
 Filion and Kramer eventually met at the track as Kramer rose to become one of the most prominent horse owners in the sport and an astute handicapper. But Kramer, 44, also had a shadowy side that has sent tremors through the already troubled world of harness racing and has led Filion to be barred from the track.
Law enforcement officials say that Kramer headed a far-reaching gambling ring that bet as much as $400,000 a day by using an extensive network of bookmakers and runners as well as using harness drivers like Filion to occasionally fix races. The two men were arrested earlier this month with 21 other people who were accused of taking part in a cunning scheme that stretched from New York City to Las Vegas, Nev., and the Caribbean.
The ring placed illegal bets on professional baseball, hockey and basketball games, as well as harness races, wagering tens of thousands of dollars on individual sporting events, according to investigators with the office of State Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco. The ring members called themselves the Kosher Boys, a name that apparently reflected their distaste for gambling on Jewish holidays.
While the arrest of Filion and two other harness drivers has added the element of fixing sports contests to the case, the charges against them are relatively minor: misdemeanors for throwing a race each at Yonkers Raceway in a sport that has a history of such scandals. They have not been accused of the more serious charge of bribery. That raises a question: If bribery was not an issue, why would someone of Filion's stature help fix a race in the first place?
A law enforcement official who insisted on anonymity suggested that one possible reason for Filion to fix a race would be to pay off a debt owed to Kramer. But Thomas Mason, the lawyer who represented Filion at the arraignment, dismissed that line of reasoning and maintained the driver's innocence.
For now, Kramer has emerged as the central figure, a man who seems to have been infected by the thrill of gambling early in his life. As Kramer himself once said in an interview about horses and gambling: "I was not born into it as many are. My father was a clothing manufacturer and mother was a school teacher. The family is very religious and was quite perplexed how a good Jewish boy, who went to an Orthodox synagogue, could get involved with gambling on horses, which I love."
But what he really loved was winning. Friends, acquaintances and business associates of Kramer's describe him as a man with a shrewd mind and an uncanny knack for brokering a deal. It didn't matter whether he was placing bets on a sporting event or bidding at a horse auction or even trading options on Wall Street. He succeeded like few others around him.
Even investigators who kept him under surveillance for months were struck by his style. "He was a very sharp businessman," said Joseph Mahoney, a spokesman for the Attorney General's office. "Unfortunately, his business was illegal and he got greedy at it. He bet larger and larger amounts and was brazen."
Repeated phone calls to Kramer and his attorney were not answered. But Kramer, who faces a felony gambling charge, told of his enduring passion for gambling and horses in a lengthy article that appeared in Trot magazine in March of last year, just a few months before he purchased a promising filly called Hardie Hanover at an auction for the unexpected price of $500,000.
Kramer's first big score at the track was in the early 1970's after he had left school, just nine credits short of a degree in economics, partly so that he could spend more time following the races. And the big score was very big -- he won more than $50,000 in a day of betting at Roosevelt Raceway on Long Island.
Kramer went on to purchase more than a few successful harness racing horses, and his stable -- which came to include Cambest, the fastest standardbred horse ever with a 1:461/5 mile in 1993 -- became among the most respected in the sport.
"He had a good eye for horses," said Murray Brown, one of Kramer's friends and the general manager of Hanover Farms, a major breeder and seller of harness racing horses in Hanover, Pa. "As most owners do, he loved to win. He loved quality."
Still, he ran into problems. By 1985, Kramer had lost his harness owner's license after being indicted in Westchester on charges that he took part in an illegal gambling operation, charges that were eventually dropped. He did not return to the sport as a licensed owner for six years.
It was during these years of banishment that he turned to the high-stakes business of option trading. Michael Kimmelman, a horse owner and partner of a money-management firm on Wall Street, recalled how Kramer came to him asking for lessons.
Kimmelman took Kramer on as an apprentice and was immediately impressed by his brains and determination.
"I've never seen anybody learn about options trading as quickly as he did," Kimmelman said, noting that Kramer spent hours interviewing people at the firm. "He was a very good student, a very good learner."
Kramer returned to harness racing in the early 1990's with a vengeance. R. Peter Heffering, a breeder of harness horses, recalled the trip that he and his business partners made to a horse auction in Hanover last year with the aim of paying as much as $375,000 for Hardie Hanover, the sport's top 3-year-old filly at the time.
"We opened the bid at $300,000, and we thought we'd get her," Heffering said. "You bid $300,000, and that takes a lot of people out of an auction in a hurry."
But Kramer had plans of his own. "He bid $500,000, and that shut the door on us," Heffering said of having been outbid for one of the most coveted horses in the sport at the time.
There was something else Kramer was excelling in: gambling. His ring was handling hundreds of thousands of dollars in bets on any given day. Prosecutors estimate that Kramer's operation had moved a total of $2.8 million on 24 baseball games between July 3 and July 9 this year.
The ring's methods were nothing new in the world of bookmaking. Investigators say the operation essentially consisted of taking in a series of bets and then shopping around among bookmakers across the country for the best odds available on any one game.
The operation did stand out because of its huge profits and the number of bets it moved in such a short time. On last April 28, Kramer was overheard by investigators making 31 calls in 39 minutes to shop for betting lines on several professional baseball and basketball games.
The ring, prosecutors say, had another remarkable feature: its ability to lure the likes of Filion and the other two drivers, whose licenses have been suspended. Prosecutors say they have a tape-recorded conversation in which Filion is heard agreeing to finish third with a horse, She's Crown Hero, during the sixth race last June 26 at Yonkers Raceway.
The entire scheme came under scrutiny after the police in Scarsdale received an anonymous phone call and letter last year that described the operation. Earlier this month, Kramer and the others were arrested as authorities seized more than $9 million in assets, including $2.3 million in cash from a safe-deposit box controlled by Kramer.
Kramer appeared to enjoy the high life while it lasted. He was a man, officials say, who dressed in fine clothing, ate at good restaurants, drove a Lexus and owned a $650,000 house in Scarsdale with a small waterfall cascading over a rock garden on the front lawn.
And he seemed to regard gambling as a calling. "Why shouldn't bookmaking and betting be an honorable profession?" he said in the magazine interview. "In my dealings in the world, the people I tend to have trouble with are the suits and ties to whom a handshake doesn't mean a thing. It's not that way with gamblers."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel P. Kramer, below, is charged with running a far-reaching sports gambling ring that involved harness drivers fixing races. Herve Filion is charged with throwing the sixth race at Yonkers Raceway on June 26; he finished second, at right. (Susan Harris for The New York Times) (pg. B7); Herve Filion, left, and James Tini, one of his lawyers, at the harness driver's arraignment Aug. 11 in Yonkers on charges of throwing a race. (Associated Press) (pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (54%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (54%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; JOCKEYS, DRIVERS AND TRAINERS; GAMBLING HORSES (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (75%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); BASKETBALL (73%); BASEBALL (73%); LAWYERS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); ARRESTS (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); MISDEMEANORS (69%); BRIBERY (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (66%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND; KRAMER, DANIEL P; FILION, HERVE DANIEL P KRAMER (95%); HERVE FILION (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



428 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Are Puzzled Over the Deaths of Whales in the St. Lawrence

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH 

DATELINE: RIMOUSKI, Quebec

 BODY:
THE Gulf of St. Lawrence, drainage basin for more than 500,000 square miles of industrial Canada and the United States, is also the world's longest, widest and deepest estuary, home to whales, dolphins and seabirds. It is a place where economic and ecological interests meet, and scientists concerned with both have been studying such questions as why the population of beluga whales here is not increasing despite a ban on hunting them.
Perched on a hill above the water here, the National Institute for Scientific Oceanic Research operates as a kind of consulting company to support both ecological balance and economic growth. Many of the 25 professors and 70 graduate students, all from the University of Quebec at Rimouski, are at work on projects related to belugas, hydrodynamic modeling, spillage from sunken oil barges and aquaculture. 
 The gulf has the only permanent colony of belugas outside the Arctic. The beluga -- a white whale, but far smaller than Captain Ahab's -- grows to a maximum length of 20 feet and feeds voraciously on most marine organisms.
Autopsies of beluga carcasses washed up on the St. Lawrence shore over the last dozen years show a high rate of intestinal cancer, apparently caused by pollution either of the water the belugas swim in or of the food they eat.
In recent years, the campus in Rimouski, the largest Quebec city on the gulf, has responded to heightened public awareness of the belugas' health problems.
Once hunted, the whales have been on the Canadian Government's endangered list since 1983. Tens of thousands still thrive in Canada's Arctic waters, where they are not considered endangered. But here the colony has failed to grow beyond the 525 animals estimated when the St. Lawrence whale hunt was banned in 1978 -- in contrast to 10,000 at the turn of the century.
One of the Rimouski projects, run by a chemistry professor, Dr. Emilien Pelletier, for the Canadian Department of Fisheries and Oceans, seeks to establish whether a known carcinogen, benzo (a) pyrene (BaP), emitted as a waste chiefly by aluminum smelters, has been transmitted to the whales through the food chain.
The researchers trap the shrimp, crab and bottom fish like flounder and halibut that are part of the belugas' diet and analyze whether the samples have been exposed to the BaP sediments that have piled up, chiefly in the Saguenay River, a St. Lawrence tributary and site of most of the smelters.
The Aluminium Company of Canada has four smelters in the Saguenay-Lac St. Jean region with the capacity to produce almost 700,000 tons of aluminum a year, and two smaller Quebec smelters whose waste products also end up in the St. Lawrence.
Alcan says it has slashed emissions of BaP and other polycyclic aromatic chemicals by more than 90 percent over the last 15 years, even as it notes that a direct link between its emissions and cancer in the whales has never been established.
A year into the three-year study, Dr. Pelletier says he has been unable to detect concentrations in samples of the belugas' food above international guidelines for fisheries products. Nor is he able to find dangerous concentrations in water samples.
"It's a nightmare," said the researcher, who works with a half dozen graduate students. "I have never faced so difficult a task."
It could be a limitation in the precision of the instruments the researchers use, he theorized. Or perhaps the compounds have already been metabolized. A second stage of the project is to try to track the compounds in the livers and bile of the fish, he said.
From 1983 through 1994, scientists examined 73 of 175 belugas whose bodies had washed up on the shore and found that one-fifth of them -- 14 of 73 -- had intestinal cancer.
Dr. David Martineau, a pathologist at the University of Montreal School of Veterinary Medicine who conducted many of the autopsies, said, "The rate is much higher than that of all animal species, including man, except for sheep in some regions of Australia and New Zealand where a high rate of intestinal cancer is due to herbicides."
The 14 account for more than half the cancer cases among all the dead whales in the world. Of 1,800 whales washed ashore and examined in the United States, scientists found cancer in one. No such cases are reported among Arctic belugas.
Other toxic chemicals in the water, such as dioxins, furans, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB's), Mirex and mercury, could also be contributing to the whales' plight. Marine biologists believe that consumption of eels that have absorbed PCB's as they migrate from the Great Lakes to the Sargasso Sea every year causes tumors to develop on the belugas.
A five-year program financed by the national and provincial governments seeks a 90 percent reduction of liquid effluents by 106 factories along the river and gulf by the year 2000. the program would also halve the use of pesticides.
Belugas tend to congregate near the mouth of the Saguenay River, where the deep Laurentian channel that brings cold sea water into the gulf begins a sharp ascent. The progression is from 1,312 feet to 131 feet within a couple of miles. The cold water is full of plankton and other nutrients. As it nears the surface, it makes the area into a virtual marine nursery, especially inviting for the belugas.
Dr. Vladimir G. Koutitonsky, director of the Rimouski institute, is a leader of its efforts in hydrodynamic modeling, mapping the physical forces in the gulf. His teams go out on ships to measure the currents, tides and wind, and the concentrations of salt and some pollutants. Then they feed the numbers into computers.
The results comprise a numerical model, helpful in predicting, for example, what may happen in an oil spill. A model for the estuary, which the institute has developed in cooperation with the federal Maurice Lamontagne Research Institute of nearby Mont Joli, Quebec, is now being used in the delicate operation of lifting a leaking oil barge. The barge, the Irving Whale, sank in a storm 25 years ago off Prince Edward Island.
The Canadian Government says it will spend $10 million (Canadian) to try to salvage the 230-foot barge and its contents, 4,200 tons of fuel oil. About a quarter of the load has already leaked, and fishermen consider the sunken wreck an environmental time bomb. There were plans to lift it this summer, but they have been shelved for now.
Projects to increase the catch of fishermen without depleting the resource are another major area of activity. Institute scientists see the answer in fish farms and are enthusiastically promoting the idea with coastal fishermen and their unions.
"We are a kind of window into all the dynamic activity of the gulf," said Dr. Koutitonsky. "Unfortunately, the window is still not very clear. But eventually, maybe in 50 years, we'll be able to see it all. Right now it's more like being in a balloon over a forest and trying to explain the forest just from a few leaves."

GRAPHIC: Photo: To find out why this beluga whale died in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, an autopsy was done at the University of Montreal veterinary school. (Christopher Morris for The New York Times)
 
Map of Canada

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALC (PAR) (50%); AL (TSX) (50%); AL (NYSE) (50%); AL (LSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SCIENTIFIC INFORMATION CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF ST LAWRENCE; CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; WHALES AND WHALING; WATER POLLUTION; AUTOPSIES; CANCER; HUNTING AND TRAPPING MARINE MAMMALS (92%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); WHALING (89%); CANCER (89%); FISHES (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (85%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (77%); RIVERS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); CRUSTACEANS (77%); CHEMISTRY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); EMISSIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); AUTOPSIES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); CARCINOGENS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); AQUACULTURE (68%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (68%); FISHERIES (68%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (66%); AROMATICS (66%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (65%); AROMA & FLAVOR CHEMICALS (62%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H EMILIEN PELLETIER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



429 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: Can Parochial Schools Teach Public Schools?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
When Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani says that the Roman Catholic school system works in contrast to New York City's public school system, (news article, Aug. 15), he ignores a fundamental difference between the two systems. 
 Educators know parental involvement is critical to a child's school performance. Most of New York City's Catholic schools serve poor immigrant populations where families view education as the route to the American dream. Family members may contribute to tuition, and some students also work part time to put themselves through school.
This degree of family commitment, which may or may not be present for a public school child, creates a high probability that the child will finish school -- one of the criteria for evaluating a successful system.
But what are these children learning? Many Catholic schools still rely heavily on memorization, workbooks and the "fill-in-the-blanks" teaching methods that do not encourage creativity and analytical thinking and that many educators believe to be a poor preparation for the complexities of a global economy.
If the public has "lost confidence in the New York City public school system," as the Mayor asserts, he might inquire why. I cannot speak for others, but my daughter chose a private school over Stuyvesant High School because she was uncertain about the effects of budget cuts and teacher layoffs in even this flagship school of the public system.
I too was uncertain, having seen two good schools chancellors booted out in the last five years. Both made substantive changes in the public school system despite their brief tenure -- and when Ramon C. Cortines leaves, it will not be because he was on the wrong track in his "vision" for New York City's public schools but because of a power struggle with City Hall.
 
TERESE LOEB KREUZER
New York, Aug. 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDITORIALS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (93%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (93%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (92%); RELIGION (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); FAMILY (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MAYORS (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); PARENTING (72%); LAYOFFS (66%); BUDGETS (66%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: KREUZER, TERESE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



430 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Can Parochial Schools Teach Public Schools?;
El Salvador's Success

 BODY:
To the Editor:
While Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has brought to our attention the systemic problems of our schools (news article, Aug. 15), Sandra Feldman, president of the United Federation of Teachers, is proposing a solution that ought to be heard. 
 Ms. Feldman proposes to transfer decision making from the Board of Education to the schools, allowing parents, teachers and principals to decide what is best, avoiding useless layers of bureaucracy. This idea is revolutionary for New York but has been tried elsewhere, and it works.
Consider El Salvador, where a similar scheme works in rural areas where parents are often illiterate and teachers poorly trained and paid. With World Bank help, parent associations are given funds to hire teachers, buy educational material and make budgetary decisions. The results are remarkable, the parents feel empowered, teacher absenteeism is down, and teachers and principals feel supported by parents.
If the collaboration between illiterate parents and poorly trained teachers with few resources can turn a system around, just imagine what could happen in New York City.
 
HECTOR LINDO-FUENTES
New York, Aug. 17, 1995
The writer is associate professor of history at Fordham University.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EL SALVADOR (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH WORLD BANK (55%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (55%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (55%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); EL SALVADOR (93%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RELIGION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); TEACHER UNIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); WRITERS (73%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (59%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (53%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (52%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); LINDO-FUENTES, HECTOR (PROF) RUDY GIULIANI (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



431 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Jacksonville Journal;
Panting for Football, and Standing Tall

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE, Fla., Aug. 19

 BODY:
Like a late bloomer in a class of overachievers, this city near the Georgia border has long been overshadowed in the Southeast by the likes of Miami, Orlando and Atlanta. And, like guests on the "Oprah Winfrey Show," its residents have no qualms admitting an inferiority complex.
"The city has lacked identity and awareness," said Bill Lindley, head of the Convention and Visitors Bureau. He added, "We never had the one big thing, like Orlando has." 
 Until now. On Sept. 3, the Jacksonville Jaguars football team will make its debut here against the Houston Oilers, bringing with it a new image for this city of Southern roots and cosmopolitan dreams.
When the National Football League picked Jacksonville for one of two expansion teams in 1993, residents say, it also gave the city national recognition, a draw for businesses and tourists, a morale boost and something better than Disney World as far as they are concerned: football.
To understand Jacksonville's passion for football, fed by the Florida-Georgia college game played here annually, and World Football League and United States Football League teams in the 1970's and 1980's, one needs to look back to that day 16 years ago when the Baltimore Colts owner, Robert Irsay, came here to talk about a move. City officials had him dropped in the middle of the Gator Bowl, the city's football stadium, by helicopter. There, 50,000 fans pleaded: "We want the Colts! We want the Colts!"
The Colts, like at least four other N.F.L. teams over the years, flirted and teased but stayed away.
"It was a play to get more money" elsewhere, said Gary Register, 48, a Jacksonville native and roofing contractor who remembers every indignity. "You used us. You used us."
Geographically huge but with barely one million people, Jacksonville was the smallest market and the underdog among the five cities vying to get an N.F.L. expansion team. The city assuaged any attendance concerns by selling more than 10,000 club seat tickets, worth $75 million, in 10 days. Buyers were required to commit to five seasons, which meant $1,500 per season or $150 per game for five years.
The city also gave the Jaguars what is considered one of the sweetest deals in sports; it will pay for a new $135 million stadium and will give the team all revenue from parking, tickets and concessions. Critics say the arrangement is far too generous.
"I feel kind of like the father of the bride," said Mike Hogan, 1 of 4 on the 19-member City Council to vote against the Jaguars' 30-year stadium lease. "I'm having a good time, but I know that I'm paying for it."
But a town that increasingly goes by "Jagsonville" is far from feeling ripped off. To fans like Mr. Register, having the Jaguars means no more rooting for the Miami Dolphins. To Jim and Jeffrey Lee, brothers from New Jersey who own the riverfront restaurant River City Brewing Co., it means catering jobs for Jaguars corporate activities and celebrity-filled tables on home-game nights.
The restaurant's "Jag Light" has become its best-selling beer.
One study said the team would generate $131 million per year, create nearly 3,000 jobs and draw 30 percent of game attendance from outside the metropolitan area. Its inaugural season comes at a time when Jacksonville has become one of Florida's fastest-growing areas.
While Jacksonville is often overlooked by Florida tourists, the city has been luring large companies by marketing itself as a forward-looking place where business gets done. Frank Nero, special adviser to the Mayor for economic development, said the recent election of a Republican Mayor and Jacksonville's first black sheriff were "representative of the city viewing itself as progressive." (The city is 73 percent white and 24 percent black.) He said the Jaguars helped immensely by giving the city "a can-do attitude."
But at a preseason exhibition game Sunday night at the renamed Jacksonville Municipal Stadium against the St. Louis Rams, the crowd roared and the Jaguars meowed -- the team lost, 27-10. But the adoring fans seemed oblivious. They used candy to coat their tongues teal, one of the team's colors, and yelled, "We have the best-looking uniform in the N.F.L.!"
The Jacksonville fans say that if the worst happens and their beloved Jaguars falter, they will still have benefited from economic development, publicity and great football, from the opposing teams.
"We'll give them 10 years," said Donna Hirsch, 45, a fan at her first Jaguar tailgate party. "After that, we'll get rid of the coach."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 23, 1995, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a picture caption and article yesterday under the heading Jacksonville Journal, about the coming of professional football to Jacksonville, Fla., misstated the date of an exhibition game played by the city's new team, the Jaguars. The game was last Friday night, not Sunday night.

GRAPHIC: Photo: For Jacksonville, a city that has yearned for professional football for years even as it longed for national attention, Sunday night's debut of the football Jaguars was perfect -- even though the team lost, 27-10. (Marcy Applebomb for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (95%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS; HOUSTON OILERS; NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (56%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); TENNESSEE OILERS (83%); HOUSTON OILERS (83%); TENNESSEE OILERS (83%); HOUSTON OILERS (83%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (82%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS; HOUSTON OILERS; NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL) JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); JACKSONVILLE JAGUARS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); TENNESSEE OILERS (83%); HOUSTON OILERS (83%); TENNESSEE OILERS (83%); HOUSTON OILERS (83%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (82%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE (FLA); UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (95%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL SPORTS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); TOURISM (71%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (71%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA OPRAH WINFREY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1995



432 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Cut in Budget May Hamper 2000 Census

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22

 BODY:
Just when the Census Bureau would usually start increasing its spending to prepare for the next 10-year count, the tight Federal budget is forcing it to cut its operations and possibly even limit the amount of information it gathers for the tally in the year 2000.
Some Republicans, including the head of a House subcommittee that oversees the Census Bureau's spending, say it asks Americans too many questions anyway and its operation should be simplified to save money. 
 But social scientists, marketing firms and others who use census data say that the demand for demographic information is soaring. Reducing the amount of data gathered by the census would not save that much money, they say, and would be an information-age disaster.
"We are in a pickle," said Martha Farnsworth Riche, the Census Bureau's director. "That's what my mother would call it."
The Republican-controlled House last month slashed the bureau's budget to $271 million from the $340 million requested for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. The Senate is scheduled to vote soon after Labor Day on how much money to allocate to the Census Bureau, whose officials are not optimistic that much of the House-approved cuts will be restored.
Census Bureau officials say the proposed cuts are being contemplated at a time when the bureau would normally emerge from its mid-decade spending trough and start to spend more in anticipation for the next census. Under normal circumstances, Census Bureau officials say, their budget should rise to $1.6 billion to $2 billion by the year 2000 from the current level of about $278 million.
These numbers leave budget cutters unmoved.
"The fact of the matter is that the Census Bureau, like everyone else in this Government, is going to have to make some sacrifices," said Frank Maisano, spokesman for Representative Harold Rogers, the Kentucky Republican who heads the subcommittee overseeing the Census Bureau's spending. "We're asking a lot of people to make a lot more sacrifices than they are."
But some supporters of increased financing for the bureau say it is critical to increase its allocation now to allow it to test new techniques and technology that the bureau hopes will reduce the overall cost and increase the accuracy of the 2000 census.
"It's a matter of economics," said Bob Marx, the bureau's associate director, who is in charge of the next census. "We asked for $59.5 million for our 1996 projects. Right now the House is offering $42 million. That's $17 million worth of work that we won't be able to do."
Both sides in the debate agree that the problem for the Census Bureau will get only worse. As the bureau's costs escalate approaching the 2000 census, the Republicans will also be nearing 2002, when they have said they will have balanced the Federal budget. As a result, Congress will be looking even harder at trimming Federal spending, including the Census Bureau's share.
Officials hope to improve upon the 1990 census, which at $2.6 billion was the most expensive in American history and missed an alarmingly high percentage of Americans, most notably black men and American Indians.
The officials are particularly eager to cut the cost of tracking down the rising numbers of people who decline to mail back their census forms. Bureau officials say as much as 20 percent of the cost of the 1990 census stemmed from hiring temporary help to ferret out people who did not mail back census forms.
The Census Bureau is experimenting with new methods to encourage people to fill out and return the form. And, in a more controversial action, the Census Bureau is also experimenting with the idea of taking a statistical sample of those who do not return forms, rather than sending workers out to interview them.
Tests conducted this spring in Paterson, N.J., Oakland, Calif., and six rural parishes in northern Louisiana provided some evidence of how costs for the temporary workers continue to escalate. Census officials found that large percentages of housewives -- normally a major source of census takers -- are already working and that the Baby Bust has produced a small number of college-age students, the other major source of temporary census workers.
As a result, the Census Bureau had to pay more than the minimum wage -- in some cases as much as $11 an hour -- to attract temporary workers.
Census Bureau officials assert that the proposed reductions are coming on top of general belt tightening that the bureau has been undergoing during the current fiscal year. Tight budgets have already caused census officials to cut back on the publication of reports on data from previous surveys and to reduce the number of locations this year for testing new methods of counting people for the next census.
"These are difficult times already, and this is before the present budget cuts," Ms. Riche said in an interview this week.
Further reductions could cause the Census Bureau to postpone buying new imaging technology that would allow it to scan data from census forms into its computer system. The cutbacks could also reduce the amount of testing the bureau will do this year on how many and what kind of questions it will ask on the 2000 census, already a highly contentious issue.
The House-passed reductions reflect a view held by Mr. Rogers that the census needs to be simplified and that response rates could be increased by scrapping the long form, which he feels is too complicated and too cumbersome for people to fill out. The long form had 58 questions and was mailed to one-sixth of all households in 1990. It produced a wealth of data for demographers, social scientists, marketers, state and local governments and Federal agencies.
"It is absolutely unappealing," Mr. Rogers said at a hearing of his subcommittee last March. "It has an explanation that was written by Genghis Khan. It is absolutely forbidding. It is asking questions that I don't know that we need the answers for."
While a number of demographers dispute Mr. Rogers's claim that it is the complexity of the form that adds to the cost of taking the census, preliminary results from this year's tests indicate there is some basis for his claim. The Census Bureau experimented with four different types of forms, a short form and three long forms. On the long forms the number of questions ranged from 54 to 17.
Not surprisingly, the shorter the form, the higher the response rate.
Census Bureau officials countered that all the questions on the long form are either required directly by Federal law or are asked because Federal law requires specific kinds of information that is reliably collected only by the census.
Mr. Rogers insists, however, that if people really want the data, they should pay for its collection. If Government agencies need it, he said, they should finance its collection out of their own budgets. "I don't care if it is authorized or mandated by law," he said at the March hearing. "This subcommittee is not going to pay for it."
As depressing as the proposed spending reductions seem to Census Bureau officials, the cuts are minor compared to those contemplated under a plan by some Republicans to scrap the Commerce Department, which houses the Census Bureau. Under one proposal, the Census Bureau would be moved to the Treasury Department and its budget would be held at about $178 million a year throughout the rest of the decade.
Asked at a Congressional hearing this spring what effect such a proposal would have on the next census, Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown answered, "What census?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Marx, associate director of the Census Bureau, said budget cuts will limit the amount of work done to prepare for the next census. He is supervising the census, which will be conducted in the year 2000. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A15)
 
Graph: "ADDING IT UP: Census Budget" shows total appropriations of the U.S. Census Bureau from 1984 to 1995. (Source: Census Bureau)(pg. A15)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CENSUS (95%); BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); US LABOR DAY (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (56%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A HAROLD ROGERS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995



433 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: GIULIANI CRITICIZES A U.S. CRACKDOWN ON ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:
Immigration restrictions gathering steam in the Republican-led Congress would have "catastrophic social effects" in New York City and other large cities, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday. He charged that the proposals violated basic decency and could throw as many as 60,000 immigrant children out of the city's schools and onto the streets.
Once again taking sharp exception with the dominant conservative wing of his own party, Mr. Giuliani said in an interview that the proposed crackdown on illegal immigrants was deliberately intended to play to the public's worst fears of foreigners, and did not take into consideration the positive effects of immigrants on cities like New York. 
 "It's based on an irrational fear of something different, something strange, that somehow they're going to take something away from us," he said. "A lot of it is just undifferentiated fear of foreigners, of people who appear to have different values or different ways of doing things."
In June, the Congressional Task Force on Immigration Reform, a Republican-dominated panel appointed by Speaker Newt Gingrich, issued a report containing dozens of recommendations on restricting illegal immigration.
The proposals, now being written into bills that are at various stages of consideration in House committees, would require public hospitals to report illegal aliens who seek medical treatment and would require public schools to turn away students who are in this country illegally. The report, which Mr. Gingrich endorsed, is similar to Proposition 187, a measure approved by California voters last November that would cut off most public benefits to illegal aliens.
Mr. Giuliani, a grandson of Italian immigrants, said the proposals would be both morally and fiscally devastating to cities, which would suddenly be put in the position of enforcing national immigration laws that the Federal Government has failed to implement.
The city's public schools, for example, have between 40,000 and 60,000 students whose parents are undocumented aliens, he said. If the Board of Education were forced to search for and report those families, he said, many of the parents would simply not send their children to school, resulting in tens of thousands of children on the street, driving up crime and putting both the children and other residents in danger.
Illegal aliens might also be scared away from public hospitals if a similar reporting requirement were used there, he said, even if the hospitals would be allowed to provide emergency care. That could result in an increase of communicable diseases, he said, and would be morally wrong.
"It's just out of a sense of decency," he said. "I can't imagine, even in parts of the country where the views are harsher than they might be in New York, that they're basically going to say, let people die."
One of the architects of Mr. Gingrich's immigration policy accused the Mayor of pandering.
"It's a sad day when you have a person with Rudy Giuliani's credentials, someone who has dedicated his life to the criminal justice system, openly advocating protecting those who are violating the law," said Representative Elton Gallegly, a California Republican who is chairman of the immigration task force. "Unlike Mayor Giuliani, I make no apologies for putting Americans first."
Under an executive order signed by Mayor Edward I. Koch in 1985 and still in effect, city agencies are required to provide services to illegal immigrants and are prohibited from turning over information an immigrant to the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service unless the immigrant has been charged with a crime.
The House task force, comprising 46 Republicans and 8 Democrats, includes only one member from New York State, Reresentative Susan Molinari, a Republican from Staten Island. She was out of the country yesterday and unavailable for comment.
Mr. Gallegly said the school requirement was no more burdensome than verification of residency to attend a neighborhood school. He said that if taxpayers were going to continue paying for the medical care of illegal aliens in emergency rooms, then the Government has the right to know who those patients are so they can be deported.
Mr. Gallegly, who represents Ventura County, near Los Angeles, stressed that the measures would only apply to illegal aliens, not other immigrants who have entered the country legally. But other legislation in the House would take benefits away even from legal immigrants. In March, the House passed a welfare bill that would deny food stamps, Medicaid and welfare payments to legal residents of the country who are not citizens.
A comparable welfare bill introduced in the Senate by the majority leader, Bob Dole, would allow states to cut off benefits to legal aliens, but would not require them to do so.
Mr. Giuliani said that the welfare proposal, if enacted into law, would cost the city millions of dollars. Though his administration has been removing thousands of people from the local welfare rolls through heightened scrutiny of their applications, he said the city was not prepared to take care of thousands of aliens who would lose Federal benefits and become destitute.
"This is an absolute shifting of responsibility to city and state governments that can do nothing about the immigration problem," he said.
The Mayor said he plans to work quietly with other mayors, and allies in Congress, to prevent the provisions from becoming law. Last year, he said, he joined successful lobbying to remove two provisions that would have had a similarly negative effect on New York City: the crime bill would have required cities to turn in the names of all illegal aliens discovered from all sources, including people who report crimes, and the education bill would have required schools to determine if all parents were legal residents.
Noting that the immigration issue has divided the leadership of the Republican Party, Mr. Giuliani said the restrictive proposals violate one of the party's most basic principles, which he described as "government acts best when it acts least." He said the proposals also fail to take note of the important economic effects of immigration on such New York neighborhoods as Flushing, Queens, which during the last few decades has been transformed by waves of Chinese and Korean immigrants.
"From the point of view of pure dollars and cents, the notion that immigrants are taking away opportunities and taking away jobs from other people largely isn't the case," he said. "They're creating opportunities.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "An irrational fear of something different" was how Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani described the basis for Republican-led Congressional immigration initiatives in an interview at his City Hall office yesterday. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA REPUBLICAN (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; URBAN AREAS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ILLEGAL ALIENS IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); REFUGEES (74%); TRENDS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); DISEASE REPORTING (64%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995



434 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-12
 
IRAQI ARMS DISCLOSURES
Iraq has told the head of a United Nations inspection team that its germ warfare program was larger and more advanced than it had previously admitted. A1
 
POLITICAL BLOW TO YELTSIN
The new political party created by Boris N. Yeltsin suffered a humiliating defeat in the Russian President's home province. A1
 
UNSOLVED MURDER IN GUATEMALA
The widow of the Guatemalan President's cousin has found that even her powerful connection cannot produce an accounting of her husband's killing by a death squad. A1
 
STRIKE AT ISRAEL'S GOVERNMENT
News Analysis: There was an ominous new twist to the latest suicide bus bombing in Jerusalem -- it was intended to bring down the Israeli Government in next year's elections. A6
 
UPROAR OVER CROSS IN BAVARIA
A court ruling that Bavaria cannot require a crucifix to be hung in every classroom has the state in upheaval. A3
 
MEXICO PURSUES DRUG LORD
The Mexican Government is negotiating for the surrender of one of the country's most powerful cocaine traffickers. A5
 
TENSION OVER TAIWAN
News Analysis: For the first time in decades, Chinese and Western officials are wondering aloud whether there is a danger of war breaking out over Taiwan. A12
 
Zairian soldiers forced thousands of refugees to return to Rwanda. A3
 
Bosnian Serb attacks killed 6 people and wounded 38 in Sarajevo. . A12
 
Ilheus Journal: Where Brazil's cocoa flourished, weeds grow. A4
 
National A14-18
 
CUTBACKS BEFORE CENSUS TIME
The tight Federal budget is forcing the Census Bureau to cut operations just when it would usually start increasing spending to prepare for the next 10-year census. A1
 
A DEATH TRANSFIXES DETROIT
Despite conflicting reports about a woman who died after plunging into the Detroit River, one thing is clear: No onlooker intervened until she had gone into the water. A1
 
FOCUS ON PLANE'S ENGINE
Investigators began combing through the wreckage for clues about what caused an engine of a commuter plane to give out before it crashed in a Georgia field. A14
 
TAPE OF SIMPSON DETECTIVE
Transcripts of taped interviews with a police witness in the O.J. Simpson case reveal that he boasted that there was "nothing better" than "a good beating." A14
 
CONGRESSMAN CONVICTED
A jury convicted Representative Mel Reynolds of Illinois of having sex with a former campaign worker when she was underage. A14
 
GAMBLING INQUIRY IN LOUISIANA
Affidavits revealed what authorities describe as a large investigation of public corruption involving legislators and owners of gambling establishments in Louisiana. A16
 
CLINTONS GO RAFTING
The Clinton family, vacationing in Wyoming, took a rafting trip, which the White House was careful to describe without using the word "whitewater." A18
 
MAPPING OUT CYBERSPACE
Participants at the "Aspen Summit: Cyberspace and the American Dream II" agreed that the nation was entering an era that will profoundly remake its political, economic and social landscape. A17
 
Education B6
 
Cadets arrive at the female version of the Virginia Military Institute.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
MAYOR CRITICIZES IMMIGRANT BILL
Immigration restrictions gathering steam in the Republican-led Congress would have "catastrophic social effects," Mayor Giuliani said, charging that they violated basic decency and could throw as many as 60,000 immigrants out of city schools and onto the streets. A1
 
SHORTENED SCHOOL DAY REJECTED
State officials turned down a request by the New York City Board of Education to shorten the elementary school day by up to two periods a week, leaving community superintendents scrambling to find another way to cut $30 million. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
Goings-on between Ticketmaster and Pearl Jam. C11
 
A scary 'play' in Brazil. C11
 
Music: Works for cello. C12
 
Chico O'Farrill and band. C15
 
Books: Jews and the Inquisition. C16
 
Book Notes C11
 
TV: "Washington Scandals." C16
 
The Living Section C1-8
 
Southern culinary traditions. C1
 
A horse and marriage. C1
 
New England's chardonnays. C3
 
Health Page C10
 
Personal Health: Commonest clotting ailment isn't hemophilia.
 
Sports B8-13
 
Baseball: Yanks lose to A's B9
 
Steinbrennner makes playoffs a must. B11
 
Giants topple Mets. B11
 
Column: Berkow on the Jets. B9
 
Football: Jets sign Marshall. B9
 
Horse Racing: Derby dream fades for colt. B9
 
Olympics: Atlanta gets favorable review. B13
 
Tennis: Teen-ager takes dream to U.S. Open. B13
 
Obituaries B7
 
Alexander Z. Bielski, a guerrilla leader against the Nazis.
 
Nanni Loy, film director.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A20-21
 
Editorials
 
Israel: peace, terror and dissent.
 
Smoking's unsettled state.
 
Mr. Pataki rights a wrong.
 
Taxi!
 
Letters
 
Thomas L. Friedman: The no-dead war.
 
Marshall Freeman Harris, Stephen W. Walker: The sellout of Bosnia.
 
A. Lee Parks: Georgia's unholy alliance.
 
Susan Faludi: For Shannon Faulkner, strength in numbers.
 
Chronicle B2
 
Crossword C15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); BRAZIL (79%); RWANDA (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (92%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (72%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); BRAZIL (79%); RWANDA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); CENSUS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); COCAINE (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MURDER (76%); DEATHS (75%); TRANSCRIPTS (75%); VERDICTS (73%); WITNESSES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); JURY TRIALS (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); REFUGEES (73%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); BUDGETS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); BOATING & RAFTING (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (67%); CORRUPTION (61%); GAMING (60%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995



435 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Copley to Pay $150 Million In Respiratory-Drug Suit
Copley Pharmaceutical agreed to pay as much as $150 million to settle suits charging that albuterol, its respiratory drug used by asthmatics and others, made people ill or even led to their deaths. The tentative settlement halted a 42-day trial that involved 14 deaths and 100 injuries all across the country.
Last year Copley recalled all of its albuterol, nearly four million vials, saying the action was merely a precaution. But plaintiffs asserted that millions of vials of the inhaler had been contaminated since the company began manufacturing the drug in 1990. [Page D2.]
 
Microsoft Talking With Turner
Microsoft is negotiating with Turner Broadcasting System with an eye toward making a $1 billion equity investment in Turner, a person close to the talks said. In addition the companies are said to be considering a joint venture in which Microsoft would use Turner's library of movies and other programming for CD-ROM products, on-line services and other efforts. [D3.]
 
Coming to Your Screen: E-Checks
The check's in the mail? Not if some banks and technology companies have their way. "Electronic checks" are what they envision, E-mail checks that could be used for phone bills and birthday presents -- but that, yes, could still bounce. [D2.]
 
Buffett Listens. What Next?
Warren Buffett can infuriate chief executives -- as he did by saying grants for stock options should be charged against earnings, and as he does by, well, just being so capable. Now he's really gone over the line: He's listening, and responding, to shareholders who had objected to a Berkshire Hathaway proposal. [D3.]
 
Outsider in the Board Room
Dale Hanson joined the board of ICN Pharmaceuticals, giving this campaigner for shareholder power an opportunity to practice what he preached as head of a huge California pension fund. He'll have his hands full. The S.E.C. is investigating ICN. [D3.]
 
News Corp. Disappointment
The News Corporation reported higher earnings, helped by an improvement in Fox Television and in its British newspapers. But analysts said that the company's fourth quarter was worse than expected, and its A.D.R.'s slipped. [D4.]
 
Is Rockefeller Center Cornered?
If Rockefeller Center Properties shuns Sam Zell for rival investors -- Tishman Speyer is already in the game, and speculation about another is rife -- it faces a breakup fee of $11.5 million, newly filed papers show. [D9.]
 
A Quiet Day for Stocks
Wall Street was quiet yesterday, as befits a sunny, late August day. With volume low, the Dow industrials rose 5.64 points, to 4,620.42, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 5.59, to 1,025.29. [D10.]
 
Treasury Prices Slip
Prices of Treasury securities slipped after the Fed left interest rate unchanged, with the yield on the 30-year bond inching up to 6.89 percent from 6.87 percent on Monday. [D20.]
 
Trumpeting The U.N.'s 50th
When the United Nations celebrates its 50th birthday in October, New York City wants to trumpet the news -- and, of course, make the city look good in the process. To those ends, it's mounting a $1 million advertising campaign. And it's doing it without taxpayer money: The campaign is supported by individual and foundation philanthropy and by contributions of labor and services, all of it organized by volunteers. Advertising. [D4.]
 
Cutting the Census Budget
The Census Bureau asks too many questions, say some Congressional Republicans who want to slash its budget. But others insist that the demand for demographic information is soaring and see an information-age disaster if the flow of data dries up. [A1.]
 
The Fast Track Is Underground
The subway, business travelers the world over are discovering, is often the best alternative to fighting through traffic. In Seoul, for instance, you can get across town in about half the time it takes to drive -- and in a civilized manner -- by going underground. Business Travel. [D9.]

GRAPHIC: Table: "YESTERDAY"

Dow industrials	4,620.42	+5.64	30-yr. Treasury yield	6.89%	+0.02	The dollar	96.90 yen	+0.08	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (64%); NWS (ASX) (64%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); BRK.B (NYSE) (54%); BRK.A (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (64%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (54%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (77%); UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); NEWS CORP (64%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (56%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (54%); SLIP PRICES OF TREASURY (58%); BUREAU OF THE CENSUS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SLIP PRICES OF TREASURY (58%); BUREAU OF THE CENSUS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (77%); UNITED STATES (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ASTHMA (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); TELEPHONE RATES (73%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (72%); STOCK OPTIONS (69%); BOARD CHANGES (63%); NETWORK TELEVISION (60%); BOND MARKETS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995



436 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Fed Leaving Rates Alone, As Expected

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22

 BODY:
With the economy apparently recovering from a stumble in the spring, the Federal Reserve's top policy committee chose today to leave short-term rates unchanged.
The decision to do nothing had been widely expected, given a recent string of strong economic indicators that suggested little need for the Fed to stimulate the economy right now. But the decision was nonetheless important as an indication that the central bank planned to move slowly on lowering rates even in the face of an equally striking set of indicators showing inflation was under control. 
 The Federal Reserve's decision had little effect on the stock and bond markets.
The group that met today, the Federal Open Market Committee, had voted on July 6 to cut interest rates for the first time since 1992. In the weeks before that meeting, the economy had seemed in worse shape, and the Fed's chairman, Alan Greenspan, had talked about the possibility of a recession.
Nevertheless, the panel chose to make the smallest possible reduction in short-term interest rates, and justified the move not in terms of the need for stimulus but on the grounds that "inflationary pressures have receded enough."
Given that the Federal Reserve had previously tended to change interest rates several times over the space of a year once it moved them at all, the July reduction in rates prompted considerable speculation about the pace of further rate cuts.
Today's decision to stand pat suggested that the tempo would be slow. The Open Market Committee is not scheduled to meet again until Sept. 26, although Wall Street economists said today the group might have voted to give extra discretion over the next five weeks to Mr. Greenspan to reduce rates further.
The Federal Reserve signaled it did not change interest rates today with a carefully phrased announcement that matched statements made previously when the committee had left rates untouched.
"The Federal Open Market Committee meeting ended at 12:25 P.M.," Joseph R. Coyne, the central bank's chief spokesman, said at 2:14 P.M. "There is no further announcement."
This outcome means the target for the Federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans but which the Fed strongly influences, is likely to stay at its current level of 5.75 percent. The Federal Reserve also left untouched the discount rate, which it charges banks for loans and which stands at 5.25 percent.
Clinton Administration officials had no comment on the Federal Reserve's decision today, in keeping with their policy of respecting the central bank's autonomy. But few officials seem to have strong views right now on interest rate policies in any case.
An interest rate cut now might raise economic growth slightly during next year's elections, which could help President Clinton's reelection campaign. But a rate reduction would also make it less attractive for foreigners to make short-term investments in the United States, and that would undermine Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin's effort to drive up the value of the dollar in international currency markets.
While Mr. Rubin has argued that a strong dollar is in the national interest because it protects the buying power of American consumers and preserves the dollar's dominant role in international trade, some Administration officials also contend that a strong dollar is in the Administration's political interest. When the dollar weakens, as it did last spring, it is widely viewed as a sign of national weakness that tends to hurt whatever President is in office, they argue.
Business groups like the National Association of Manufacturers and the United States Chamber of Commerce accused the Federal Reserve of excessive caution today.
"We felt the Fed had room to cut," Martin A. Regalia, the chief economist at the Chamber of Commerce, said. "There is virtually no inflation on the horizon, and the economy, while growing, is not growing anything like fast enough to trigger inflation."
But with many signs the economy is growing at close to full capacity, long-term interest rates have risen over the last month as investors worried that a burst of economic growth might lead to shortages of some skilled workers and materials, feeding inflation. Investors tend to demand higher returns before lending money when they think that they might be repaid in dollars devalued by inflation.
"There hasn't been any clamor in the financial markets for a rate cut, not like what it was in mid-June," said Kenneth P. Mayland, the chief financial economist and senior vice president at Keycorp, a Cleveland-based bank.
Mr. Greenspan testified before a Congressional subcommittee on July 19 that the worst risk of a recession had passed. Housing starts have risen while retail sales and industrial production have steadied after falling during the spring.
At the same time, consumer price inflation grew only two-tenths of a percent in July while there was no inflation in the prices that factories and other producers receive for their goods.
Steady growth and steady prices are exactly what Mr. Greenspan was pursuing when the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates seven times during a 12-month period that began on Feb. 4, 1994. The current outcome has pleased senior Fed officials.
"We're in a situation where we're going to have exactly what the doctor ordered, which is slow, moderate growth," said Lawrence B. Lindsey, a governor of the Federal Reserve Board, in an interview at the beginning of last week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (85%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BOND MARKETS (69%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995



437 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Step Right Up, Monsieur!

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: BARCELONA, Spain

 BODY:
Mark Nicholls felt "sheer terror" on the big Dragon Kahn roller coaster while his 6-year-old son, Lee, loved the tamer green-serpent carousel ride.
"We should have got the two-day pass," said Mr. Nicholls, a 35-year- old automobile test driver from Coventry, England, as he wandered with his family through Port Aventura, Europe's newest theme park. "We're enjoying it immensely." 
 The Nichollses aren't the only ones having fun.
European intellectuals may look at them askance, and the travails of Euro Disneyland, the big theme park that opened at Marne la Vallee, east of Paris, in 1992, made some people think that Europeans did not like this latest cultural import from America. But after decades of slumbering like Sleeping Beauty in the Fantasyland castle, Europe's theme park industry is up and running, stirred by spreading affluence, flourishing tourism and the influence of Disney.
Though the line between a simple amusement park and a full-scale theme park can be hazy, experts say there are now 30 to 40 theme parks operating in Western Europe, and new ones opening each year. In May, the $400 million Port Aventura opened on the Spanish Costa Dorada, south of Barcelona. Next spring, Warner Brothers, the film and entertainment unit of Time Warner, will open its $270 million Warner Brothers Movie World near Bottrop, Germany, in the heart of the Ruhr basin.
At the same time Lego World, the theme park division of the Lego toy company of Denmark, will open a $126 million park near Windsor, England. Like the original Legoland in Denmark, it will be based on the company's famous toy building blocks. And next year, Sega Enterprises, the Japanese computer-games company, will start a computerized indoor theme park in London, patterned after its Joypolis park in Yokohama.
The European divisions of American companies are getting their share of the action. In addition to the Walt Disney Company's 39 percent stake in Euro Disney, Anheuser-Busch, the huge American beer brewer, holds a 20 percent share of Port Aventura, which its Busch Entertainment Corporation helped design, and Warner Brothers owns a controlling stake in the planned German park.
The reasons for the surge in theme parks' popularity are varied, but almost everybody agrees on the catalyst: Disney.
Just as 1955, the year Disney opened Disneyland in Anaheim, Calif., is regarded as the watershed in the development of American theme parks, so Disney's arrival in Europe in the late 1980's produced a sea change in the European industry, said John Collins, Port Aventura's director.
"Disney's entry gave a further push to the industry," Mr. Collins said, guiding a visitor through Port Aventura, which like many theme parks features attractions that evoke far-off places, whether Polynesia or the American West. "It drew investors' attention, and obviously it put newer meaning as far as quality and expectations."
Once they got caught up in the trend, the Europeans put their own spin on the parks, of course. In the 1980's, for example, a group of French investors built a park outside Paris based on a popular French comic-book character, a Gallic chieftain and anti-hero named Asterix.
More often than not, though, they drew on American expertise in design and marketing. The Asterix park developers, for example, turned to Economics Research Associates, a California-based group, to test the market waters.
It is not just the Americans who are transplanting their theme parks across the Atlantic. The Europeans are entering the much more crowded American market. In 1997, Lego will begin construction of its third complex, a park in Carlsbad, Calif., an hour or so's freeway drive from Disneyland. The Tussauds Group, the theme park division of Pearson P.L.C. of Britain, which holds a 40 percent stake in Port Aventura and runs two other parks in Britain, recently announced plans for a high-technology indoor entertainment complex on 42d Street in New York.
Because of the rapid spread of parks in Europe, some communities, most notably in Britain, have begun erecting barriers to further construction. Yet, industry experts see no early end to the rush to build because there is ample room for growth. Americans, on average, visit a theme park once a year. In Western Europe, where the combined population is slightly larger than in the United States, only one in 10 people has ever been in a theme park.
Stephen B. Burke, the president of Euro Disney, estimated that the number of European theme park visitors would increase to nearly 60 million this year -- about one-fourth the number of park visitors in the United States -- compared with 45 million before Disney's arrival.
Still, Disney's entry into Europe was hardly a jaunt down the yellow brick road. The company spent nearly $5 billion -- $3.5 billion of it borrowed -- to develop the Paris-area park, only to swing its pink Victorian gingerbread gatehouse open in 1992 in the midst of a recession. The six big hotels Disney put up on the site were drawing so few visitors that one, the Newport Bay Club, was temporarily closed.
With losses mounting as the interest burden on the debt swelled, Euro Disney last year obtained a five-year debt-rescheduling agreement from banks and a forfeiture of management fees from the parent Walt Disney Company. That, plus a rise in revenue this year, has brightened Euro Disneyland's future.
Euro Disney SCA, which operates the park, recently reported its first profit, $35 million, for this year's second quarter. And though the park is not yet home free, it expects attendance this year to shoot up by 14 percent, to at least 10 million visitors, from last year's 8.8 million.
With hotel occupancy rates also up, Mr. Burke of Euro Disney predicts that the park will report about $150 million in profit, before debt payments, for the current fiscal year, which ends on Sept. 30.
To be fair, Disney was not alone in its woes. In 1993, French investors who put up $208 million to build the 20-acre Parc Asterix were forced to negotiate a refinancing package. Last year, Parc Asterix bounced back to a $31 million profit, after barely breaking even in 1993. This year, it expects attendance to increase as much as 10 percent from last year's 1.5 million.
Though the final verdict on Disney is not in, operators of other parks say they have learned from Disney's mistakes. At the same time, they credit Disney with giving the market fresh momentum.
Mr. Collins of Port Aventura cited the Disney experience as one reason Anheuser-Busch and Tussauds avoided hotel development, choosing instead to insert the park in one of Spain's tourist regions. "On the rest of the site, we have thoughts of developing a resort community, golf course -- things like that,' he said. "But that's a long way down the road."
And despite their much smaller size, many European parks say they are copying aspects of the Disney formula. Borrowing from Disney, Parc Asterix has begun a five-year refurbishment program with new rides like the Hydra, a freewheeling carousel, in its Greek Village, and an expanded dolphin show.
It has also linked up with five other European parks to coordinate marketing and to exchange information on investments and corporate sponsors. This has enabled the parks, as Disney does, to increase revenue by attracting not just local visitors but those from other countries.
Many industry executives credit Disney's arrival with forcing them to define their product more clearly. When Parc Asterix opened in 1989, many of the people who ran the park were recruits from the hotel and department-store industries who "had little concept of what a theme park really was," said Nicolas Perrard, the park's marketing director. By watching Disney, he said, the company transformed the park from a passive form of entertainment, almost like a public park, to a participatory operation.
"Thanks to Disney, our people now know what the product is," he said.
That does not mean that European recreational retreats are becoming Disney clones. The two biggest complexes in Europe -- Blackpool Pleasure Beach in Blackpool, England, with seven million visitors a year, and the long-famous Tivoli Gardens of Copenhagen, with 3.8 million -- have added rides and other features but retain their character -- respectively, an old-style seaside amusement park and an urban oasis. Tivoli dates to the 19th century.
Certainly, some customers still favor the more old-fashioned, lower-key style of European parks over the hectic pace that Disney exemplifies. Pascale Huon, a Frenchwoman who recently visited Parc Asterix with her husband, Bernard, a 41-year old engineer, and their two sons, 4 and 6, after an earlier trip to Euro Disneyland, summed it up. "There's no comparison," she said. "Disneyland is so immense. This is less commercial."
The difference is not lost on the younger generation, either. Tracey Kennedy, a 20-year-old Dubliner who works at Euro Disneyland's Big Thunder Mountain roller coaster, took a stroll through Parc Asterix on a recent afternoon.
"It was a nice change to come here," she said. "There's lots at Disney for small kids. This is more for adults."


GRAPHIC: Other European amusement parks that are in the works:
 
Time Warner Inc. is building Warner Brothers Movie World, a $270 million park, near Bottrop, Germany.
 
Lego World, the theme park division of Denmark's Lego toy company, plans a $126 million park near Windsor, England.
 
Sega, the Japanese computer-games company, expects to open a computerized indoor theme park in London next year. (pg. D1)
 
 Graph: "At Play in the Old World" shows annual attendance for some leading amusement parks in Western Europe. (Sources: Economics Research Association; park operators) (pg. D8) 
Photos/Chart: Secenes from Europe's newest amusement park, Port Aventura. The $400 million park opened in May along the Spanish Costa Dorada, south of Barcelona. Its owners are expecting 2.65 million visitors during its first year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (84%); EDL (PAR) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (63%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); SPAIN (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); ENGLAND (90%); DENMARK (88%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: BARCELONA, SPAIN (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO; EURO DISNEY; ANHEUSER-BUSCH COMPANIES INC; WARNER BROTHERS INC; PORT ADVENTURA (SPANISH THEME PARK) WALT DISNEY CO (84%); SEAWORLD PARKS & ENTERTAINMENT LLC (63%); EURO DISNEY SCA (57%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO; EURO DISNEY; ANHEUSER-BUSCH COMPANIES INC; WARNER BROTHERS INC; PORT ADVENTURA (SPANISH THEME PARK)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; FRANCE; ; SPAIN; UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (93%); SPAIN (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); ENGLAND (90%); DENMARK (88%); FRANCE (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT PARKS; AMUSEMENT PARKS; INDUSTRY PROFILES AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (94%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (76%); AMUSEMENTS & GAMING (76%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); COMPUTER GAMES (68%); TOYS & GAMES (67%); BEER & ALE (66%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (64%); BREWERIES (61%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995



438 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Pataki Rights a Wrong

 BODY:
Gov. George Pataki of New York now agrees that he was wrong to let two senior members of his administration be co-chairmen of a big campaign fund-raising event last weekend at Saratoga Race Course. His admission of error is welcome if overdue. Senior government officials with the power to regulate or grant benefits have no business soliciting campaign donations.
The two officials are Joseph Neglia, a member of the three-member state Racing and Wagering Board, which regulates the racing and parimutuel betting industry; and Clarence Rappelyea Jr., chairman of the New York Power Authority, which provides low-cost electricity to businesses. They served on the organizing committee for the Saratoga fund-raiser and their names appeared on the invitation sent out to potential contributors, including people in industries that typically do business with their offices. 
 Mr. Pataki says their participation was an oversight and that his policy has been to forbid top officials to raise money. Oddly, though, he had never articulated this policy in print or in person. Nor did he object when his Economic Development Commissioner, Charles Gargano, was named an honorary chairman of a fund-raiser for Senator Bob Dole, Mr. Pataki's choice for President.
The Governor has now vowed that henceforth officials will not double as fund-raisers, on his behalf or any other candidate's. But Mr. Pataki's good will, however admirable, is not enough. Legislation proposed by State Senator Franz Leichter would prohibit fund-raising by top officials as a matter of law. It deserves the Governor's support.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK POWER AUTHORITY INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; ETHICS FUNDRAISING (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); ETHICS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); GAMING (71%); POLITICS (66%); LEGISLATION (64%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); RAPPLEYEA, CLARENCE D JR (ASSEMBLYMAN); NEGLIA, JOSEPH EDDIE GEORGE (75%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995



439 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Climbs Against Mark; Bundesbank Rate Cuts Are Seen

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar rose against the German mark yesterday on signs that the Bundesbank might soon reduce interest rates.
The decision by the Federal Reserve to leave American interest rates unchanged had little discernible impact on the dollar. 
 In European trading, the dollar rallied after a report showed that Germany's M-3 money supply unexpectedly declined last month. The report, which the central bank watches as an indicator of inflation, prompted speculation that the Bundesbank would have room to cut rates soon, perhaps as soon as its meeting tomorrow.
The M-3 money supply shrank at an annual rate of four-tenths of 1 percent in July, after rising by the same percentage amount in June. Yesterday's report indicated that the M-3 money supply growth would fall short of the Bundesbank's target this year, analysts said.
Expectations of a German rate cut were further bolstered after the president of the Bundesbank, Hans Tietmeyer, told Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's leading financial newspaper, that he could not rule out an interest rate cut.
Lower German rates would help the dollar by making German deposits, and thus the mark, less attractive.
The dollar rose as high as 1.4890 marks before settling in New York at 1.4870 marks, up from 1.4771 marks on Monday. The dollar rose to 96.90 yen from 96.82 yen.
In his interview with Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Mr. Tietmeyer said that the Bundesbank took money supply and inflation reports into account when setting monetary policy. He added that prices were moving in the right direction.
His remarks "certainly do give the impression he's still favoring easing," said Amy Smith, a senior currency market strategist at IDEA, a consulting firm in New York.
At the least, analysts are looking for a cut in the 14-day securities repurchase rate, a key money-market rate, when the Bundesbank performs its weekly money market operations today. The repo rate was last lowered to 4.45 percent from 4.5 percent on Aug. 9.
"Given the M-3 numbers, there are expectations that the repo rate will lose another 5 basis points," said Anthony Chan, chief economist at Banc One in Columbus, Ohio. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. "Every cut in the repo rate raises the possibility of an actual easing" in the discount rate, he said.
But Mr. Chan added that the dollar's recent strength against the mark might make the Bundesbank hesitant to lower the discount rate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); OHIO, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); MONEY SUPPLY (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); 

PERSON: ANTHONY CHAN (60%); HANS TIETMEYER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995



440 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Fall as Fed Leaves Rates Unchanged

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities slipped yesterday, as the Federal Reserve left short-term interest rates unchanged at its monetary policy meeting and the Treasury sold two-year notes in a successful auction.
The 30-year bond slipped 8/32 of a percentage point, to a price of 99 28/32; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, was 6.89 percent, compared with 6.87 percent on Monday. 
 The only data out, a weekly retail sales report by Johnson Redbook, showed a drop of 1.1 percent for sales so far this month, compared with the previous one-month period, little changed from last week's reading of a 1 percent decline. Analysts said this was consistent with recent reports of disappointing back-to-school retail activity, but since the market was already aware of the trend, the report had little market impact. What it did do was raise hopes for another easing by the Fed later this year.
Supply concerns also weighed on the market, particularly so soon after the quarterly refunding earlier this month. But after the recent flurry of dollar-buying interventions by central banks, market expectations were that there could be demand for Treasury securities to make use of the dollars purchased by the central banks. And traders thought that the two-year note would be a decent vehicle to be considered.
Yesterday's sale of $17.25 billion in two-year notes saw the high yield taken at 6.09 percent, lower than analysts' expectations of a 6.10 percent yield, but higher than last month's yield of 5.955 percent. There was the customary drop in prices just ahead of the auction as some dealers sold off in hopes of lowering prices enough to make the two-year issue that much more attractive.
The Federal Open Market Committee began its meeting at 9 A.M.; at 2:14 P.M. the Fed announced that the meeting had ended at 12:25 P.M. without changing monetary policy.
Dealers waited for the meeting to end before setting up for today's five-year note auction. So when prices declined on the announcement it was apparent that the market was preparing for the $11.5 billion five-year note auction today rather than reacting to an unchanged policy. Traders said the five-year notes backed up a bit in when-issued trading, to 6.35 percent from 6.31 percent early in the day.
Theodore Ake, government trading manager at Kemper Securities in Chicago, described the two-year auction as successful, but suggested the price was a little rich. He said the auction drew support from the larger investors, basically a few big institutional investors that came in late.
Carroll J. Delaney, director of research at Stires, O'Donnell & Company, said, "The jury is still definitely out as to the extent of the economy's recovery, and it seems to us that lower interest rates would be at cross purposes with the obviously more important goal of keeping the dollar on an upward track."
Eric Hamilton, a senior fixed-income analyst with Technical Data in Boston, said: "The two-year auction found a decent welcoming committee, but there was no follow-through. Into Wednesday, it still appears necessary to build a little bit of a concession ahead of the when-issued five-year note." He predicted that the welcome for the five-year note would not be so warm as for the two-year issue.
The municipal market was steady as investors focused on yesterday's $1.02 billion in new bonds, which included $227 million of Georgia general obligation bonds in a competitive sale that went to J. P. Morgan.
The securities were sought after because of their Aaa rating by Moody's Investors Service and AA+ by Standard & Poor's. They were priced to yield from 3.70 percent for a maturity date in 1996 to 5.33 percent for one in 2015.
The New York State Thruway Authority, in a negotiated sale, priced $234.4 million of revenue bonds through Paine Webber. Demand was good enough that underwriters were able to lower yields on a few issues by as much as 5 basis points. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The bonds were rated Baa-1 by Moody's and BBB by S.& P., and were priced to yield from 3.75 percent in 1996 to 6.20 percent in 2010, with term bonds due in 2014 priced to yield 6.436 percent and a bond due in 2015 priced to yield 6.45 percent.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new two-year notes:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Yield . . . 6.090%
Low Yield . . . 6.050%
Median Yield . . . 6.080%
Accepted at low price . . . 48%
Total applied for . . . $48,692,538
Accepted . . . $17,793,918
Noncompetitive . . . $903,000
Interest set at . . . 6.00%
 
The two-year notes mature on Aug. 31, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Figures reflect current yields and those of a month-ago. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT PRICES OF TREASURY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT PRICES OF TREASURY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); RETAIL SALES (75%); TRENDS (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995



441 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Sound and Fury in East Asia

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Aug. 22

 BODY:
Summing up his life's achievements, China's paramount leader, Deng Xiaoping, once told a visitor, "There is only one thing that I shall have left undone in my lifetime: the resolution of the Taiwan question."
"I'm afraid I shall not live to see it," he said. 
 He passed his 91st birthday today, homebound, invalid and insulated from the world's gaze, without any public observance of the event, which has been his preference. It is not known whether he is aware that, for the first time in decades, Chinese and Western officials are wondering aloud whether there is a danger of war breaking out over Taiwan.
In addition to the obvious risks of conflict, any fighting between Taiwan and China would have serious economic costs to both countries, which have a close trade relationship despite their immutable political stances. And any fighting would surely cause serious strains for the United States, which has ties to both countries.
Seat of the Nationalist Government of the late Chiang Kai-shek, who fled the Communist victory on the mainland in 1949, Taiwan has long defied the mainland as a renegade province. For years it allied itself with American military power in the Pacific and, as the Republic of China, kept the Communist People's Republic of China out of the United Nations.
Now, Taiwan is defying the mainland again.
After enduring two rounds of threatening Chinese military exercises off Taiwan's coast, President Lee Teng-hui on Saturday called on Asian and Pacific nations to erect a new security shield against China.
"China has been building up its military power in recent years, posing threats to Taiwan and other Asia-Pacific countries and drawing international concern," Mr. Lee said, adding that "the possibility of military conflict remains."
Mr. Lee's appeal thus far has drawn no public response from Japan, South Korea and China's Southeast Asian neighbors, but officials from several of these countries say they have been profoundly shaken by the unfolding crisis and are considering their options.
"I think 30 years from now people are going to look back at this summer as a turning point," said one Western diplomat, "but I'm afraid it's going to be a turn for the worse."
Not a shot has been fired in anger, but the lines of confrontation are being drawn, these officials say.
The Chinese President, Jiang Zemin, who earlier this year sought to extend an olive branch to Taiwan by offering terms similar to those that will bring Hong Kong back to Chinese rule in 1997, has now apologized in private to China's military leadership for pursuing too "passive" a policy toward Taipei.
The powerful military leaders seem to have brought Mr. Jiang around to their way of thinking, and the Chinese President is now siding with their push for a campaign of increasing military intimidation against the island of 21 million in coming months, Chinese and Western officials say.
China's Foreign Minister, Qian Qichen, has been severely chastened for his failure to predict the White House turnabout that approved President Lee's visit to the United States in June, a decision that infuriated Beijing because it broke a policy that five American Presidents had adhered to, emboldening Taiwan's independence forces.
This week Mr. Qian will be pressing for a firm "guarantee" from Under Secretary of State Peter Tarnoff that Washington will never allow a repeat visit to the United States by Taiwan's leader, a promise Mr. Clinton's senior advisers have said, so far, he is unwilling to give.
"There is no flexibility on this issue," a Chinese official said this week. "If we give Lee Teng-hui any encouragement, he will go for independence, and so I am afraid there is going to be a war, because this is how our policy dictates we must respond to independence."
Untested by any previous crisis of this severity, Mr. Jiang, the former party secretary of Shanghai who never commanded military forces before being tapped as Mr. Deng's successor in 1989, is now contending with strong nationalistic currents in China's military leadership. Most of its senior members are older and have served the party far longer than Mr. Jiang, who is 68.
"It is not clear that Jiang is out front," explained an analyst in one Western embassy. "He is part of a consensus, and as is always the case in China, you can let other elements of the leadership have their head and get out front until the flaws in their strategy become apparent and then China pulls back."
The region is still shaking off the effects of China's first exercise in July, when Beijing fired six M-9 ballistic missiles to target zones equidistant from Taiwan and Japan. As one expert pointed out, it was "unprecedented" for China to demonstrate such a powerful weapon, capable of carrying nuclear warheads, by firing it out of its territory near Taiwan and Japan, where no effective defense against such a missile system exists.
But some Western embassies believe that Mr. Jiang would be able to pull back from military options if he can wring concessions out of Taipei or Washington. Chinese officials already have been heartened by the assurances they have taken from a three-page letter President Clinton conveyed to Mr. Jiang saying that the United States opposes independence for Taiwan or its admission to the United Nations.
China's first two military exercises off Taiwan's northern coast will be followed by a third and larger scale exercise, American military officials say. Taiwan is preparing to counter with its own large-scale exercise, which could begin next month.
One of China's neighbors, Singapore, went ahead with a state visit to Beijing this week, where the subject of China's pressure on Taiwan never came up in public.
As if to pre-empt the subject, President Jiang was quoted on national television tonight as telling Singapore's President, Ong Teng Cheong, and Senior Minister Lee Kuan Yew that, "a stable and developing China will not be a threat to any country."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (98%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; CHINA; CHINA (99%); TAIWAN (98%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E DENG XIAOPING (74%); CHIANG KAI-SHEK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995



442 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Cyberspace Prophets Discuss Their 'Revolution' Face to Face

BYLINE: By PETER H. LEWIS 

DATELINE: ASPEN, Colo., Aug. 22

 BODY:
Surprising alliances are becoming commonplace in mountain settings. The recent Disney-Capital Cities/ABC alliance was forged in the mountains of Sun Valley, Idaho, and just the other day Senator Bill Bradley, exploring a possible bid for the Presidency, was seen squeezing his large frame into a car here driven by Michael Eisner, Disney's chairman and arguably the most powerful man in Hollywood.
But one of the more surprising alliances was solidified over the past two days at the Ritz-Carlton hotel here, where supporters and advisers of Newt Gingrich gathered at a conference with the savants of cyberspace to create a common vision for America's future in the digital age. 
 The participants at the "Aspen Summit: Cyberspace and the American Dream II" were a diverse group. They included George A. Keyworth, who was President Ronald Reagan's science adviser and chief architect of the Strategic Defense Initiative; Alvin Toffler, the author of "Future Shock" and a technology adviser to Mr. Gingrich; Stewart Brand, creator of the Whole Earth Catalog, and John Perry Barlow, a retired Wyoming cattle rancher and Grateful Dead lyricist.
But those attending -- whether conservative venture capitalists or self-proclaimed former hippies and anarchists -- all seemed to agree that America is entering an "information revolution" that will profoundly restructure the political, economic and social landscape.
"What has happened is not that the lambs have lain down with the lions on all the issues they used to disagree on," said Jeffrey A. Eisenach, a close adviser to Mr. Gingrich for nearly a decade. "There was as much disagreement in that room today on abortion as there was 10 years ago. What has happened is a whole new group of issues and shared interests has arisen that now dominates the discussion. It's not that the people talk to each other through the Internet and that reduces conflict. In fact, there is lots of evidence that conflict is as great as ever before."
The conference was organized by the Progress and Freedom Foundation, a conservative think tank of which Mr. Eisenach is president. The foundation is best known as the sponsor of "Progress Report," a national cable television show whose co-host is Mr. Gingrich.
More than two dozen of the leading visionaries of the emerging "Knowledge Age" -- a new era that some say is the third global revolution after the agricultural and industrial revolutions -- came together here to address questions like these: What is the proper role, if any, for a government in new communities that are forming in electronic networks? How will lightning-fast, universal communications change the economy and businesses? How can laws keep up with technologies that blur the issues of intellectual property, copyright and free speech?
Many of the 200 people who came to hear the discussion said these issues were erasing the traditional differences between Republican and Democrat, liberal and conservative.
"The people here are from the center of politics, from the right wing, left wing, apolitical, technology and the arts, and what they're all seeing is deep changes in culture driven by deep changes in technology," said Marc Porat, chairman of General Magic, a Silicon Valley software company. "People who hold deep political prejudices have to set them aside."
Discussion among the panelists was heavy on theory and often long on ego. Concrete proposals were scarce.
"The most effective result of this conference is not the paper that will eventually be produced, but rather the impact the discussion will have on everyone's thinking two, three years down the road," said Representative Vernon J. Ehlers, Republican of Michigan, who is also a physicist.
Other participants included Nathan P. Myhrvold, a physicist who is a top executive at the Microsoft Corporation; Arno Penzias, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist and former head of Bell Labs, and Peter W. Huber, who holds both a law degree from Harvard and a doctorate in mechanical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Most participants were male, white, middle-aged and recognized members of the technological elite. At 35, Mr. Myhrvold was also among the youngest participants.
Only two panelists were women: Nadine Strossen of the American Civil Liberties Union, and Esther Dyson, one of the most influential computer industry commentators. Only one, Larry Irving, an assistant Secretary of Commerce, was black.
"When I looked at the panel, I thought it was way too large, but what it really is, is a workshop with an audience," said Ms. Dyson, who said she was surprised by the group's inattention to international issues. "It's not perfect, but new ideas are coming out. The way ideas get better is to put them out in the marketplace and sharpen them against other ideas."
Mr. Gingrich was not here, except in spirit. It was clear, though, that the ideas generated at this conference would be carefully synthesized and passed along to the Speaker to be used as a blueprint for redefining American telecommunications policy, and, some say, the role of Government itself in an age when tens of millions of Americans are wired to computer networks.
A number of participants said Mr. Gingrich had effectively seized the mantel of top Government cyberspace visionary from Vice President Al Gore, who is credited with creating the phrase "information superhighway."
Mr. Gingrich has taken the lead on a number of issues dear to the virtual hearts of the traditionally libertarian cyberspace community. He was an early supporter of open access to Government information over the Internet. He has mused about distributing laptop computers to every child in America. He was among the harshest Congressional critics of an effort in the Senate to restrict the flow of indecent material on the Internet.
And perhaps most pertinent to this conference, Mr. Gingrich appears to recognize the political power that the Internet gives to individual citizens and grass-roots organizations as the 1996 elections draw nearer.
A number of politicians saw in 1994 that the Internet was a powerful tool for reaching voters and disseminating campaign information.
Although many participants said they were not aware of the political sentiments of the sponsoring foundation, most said they did not matter.
"The two-party system doesn't really exist any more," said Jim Warren, an advocate for open government and a former corporate director of Autodesk Inc., one of the country's largest software companies. "We have two branches of the Corporate Party, the Republicrats and the Demopublicans, and you can't really tell them apart."
The stated goal of this Cyberspace and the American Dream II -- the first was in Atlanta last year -- was to carry on work toward the writing of a "Magna Carta" for cyberspace, the rapidly growing electronic realm where millions of Americans now spend at a least portion of their lives. Cyberspace, it was explained, goes far beyond typewritten messages sent from one individual to another, and now encompasses all the world's banking, nearly every cash register, telephone calls, information streaming from weather satellites, air traffic control systems, the contents of television, books and movies, and anything else that can be reduced to digital bits.
There was little talk of a Magna Carta at this conference. Instead, there was talk -- behind the scenes -- about how to harness the brightest minds of high technology and use their collective brainpower to assist Mr. Gingrich as he tries to reshape the nation's political and economic landscape in preparation for the information revolution.
As might be expected, the proceedings were fed directly into the Internet. Active discussions were encouraged among those who were not invited or who were unable to attend, except electronically.
"We got 6,500 hits on our Web site Monday," Mr. Eisenach said proudly. He said the conference would continue in cyberspace until early next year, at the Web address http:/ /www.townhall.com/pff.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (85%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (85%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PROGRESS AND FREEDOM FOUNDATION WALT DISNEY CO (85%); ABC INC (58%); RITZ CARLTON HOTEL CO LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROGRESS AND FREEDOM FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IDAHO, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS MOUNTAINS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (60%); ABORTION (52%); 

PERSON: GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); LEWIS, PETER H; TOFFLER, ALVIN; BARLOW, JOHN PERRY; MYHRVOLD, NATHAN; PENZIAS, ARNO; HUBER, PETER W; EISENACH, JEFFREY A NEWT GINGRICH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995



443 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: A Woman's Plunge to Death Transfixes Detroit

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 22

 BODY:
Tearful and furious, Dortha Word slammed a clenched fist down onto the bridge's gray steel railing on Monday night as she pictured her daughter clinging to it desperately, before falling to her death in the broad Detroit River early Saturday morning.
Then Mrs. Word turned and looked back across the bridge, across the lanes where the police said traffic had been backed up as her daughter, Deletha, 33, was pulled from her car after a minor accident, stripped of some or all of her clothes, and beaten before she jumped into the river to escape. All the while, about 40 people were looking on. 
 "The ones who were standing and looking, they were just as guilty," said Mrs. Word, who came to the bridge to pray and remember Deletha.
She said she thought she knew why they watched: "They like that kind of entertainment."
Because of conflicting accounts, some details of Deletha Word's death are hazy. But despite the debate here were all her clothes torn off? did the onlookers cheer? -- one thing seems clear: No one intervened until Ms. Word, who could not swim, had vanished into the dark green water.
The incident has transfixed Detroit, which has been trying to shake its image as a crime-ridden city. Ms. Word's death has made headlines for days and dominated television news as the police try to unravel the case. Today, prosecutors charged a 19-year-old college student with second-degree murder in her death; he has no criminal record.
"There's a lot at stake in imagery here for the city of Detroit," Kevin Joyce, a talk-radio host on WJR, told his listeners this afternoon. "People wonder, 'Why don't suburbanites come downtown? Why don't business and industry want to pay for the privilege of investing downtown?' Stories like this scare people away."
Some callers responded that such crimes happen everywhere. "People are really doing themselves in, not going down to Detroit," said a caller from the suburbs.
Mrs. Word had more personal concerns as the sun set behind the city's skyline and she stood by the flowers, real and artificial, that friends and relatives had tied to the bridge's railing in memory of her daughter.
She worried about Deletha's daughter, Daneeka Lamb, who is 13. She spoke of how Deletha worked at a Detroit grocery store, and how she dreamed of opening a clothing store after she earned her bachelor's degree next year from the Detroit College of Business. And she wondered again why, as the incident on the bridge escalated, no one stepped in.
"That's the hard part for me," she said. "There's no way my daughter would have stood and watched that."
Deletha was the second child Mrs. Word has lost this year. Her son, James, was shot to death in May.
Today, Martel Welch Jr., neatly dressed in a khaki suit, pleaded not guilty as he was charged in 36th District Court in the death of Ms. Word. Judge Kerry Leon Jackson said one witness described Mr. Welch's picking up Ms. Word and threatening to throw her from the bridge; others said she jumped on her own. Because of the conflicting accounts, Judge Jackson said, he set bail at $250,000.
At about 2:30 Saturday morning, Ms. Word was driving on Belle Isle, a large teardrop-shaped island park between Detroit and the Canadian shore where young people cruise on warm summer nights, listening to blaring music. According to the police, she struck Mr. Welch's car and, without stopping, drove onto the stately General MacArthur Bridge, which connects the park and the city.
Mr. Welch, with two passengers in his car, gave chase, catching up to Ms. Word in the traffic on the bridge. She then backed into his car, the police said.
Before dozens of witnesses, Mr. Welch dragged Ms. Word from her car and beat her with his hands, said Deputy Chief Benny N. Napoleon of the Detroit Police Department.
Citing the accounts of witnesses, Mr. Napoleon said that as one of Mr. Welch's companions held Ms. Word, Mr. Welch smashed her car windows with a tire iron. Mr. Napoleon said Ms. Word broke away and jumped into the river to escape.
The police said earlier that two onlookers jumped in after her to try to save her.
The police have requested an autopsy and toxicology tests on Ms. Word, Deputy Chief Napoleon said.
Richard Padzieski, chief of operations for the Wayne County Prosecutor's office, said Mr. Welch had been charged with second-degree murder because he created a "dangerous situation" that led to Ms. Word's death.
But a lawyer for Mr. Welch said that while he did chase Ms. Word in his car, he did not cause her to jump in the river. The lawyer, Wanda R. Cal, said some of the 40 or more onlookers blocked her escape and threatened her.
"I think she was intimidated by the large number of people in the crowd," Ms. Cal said. "I don't think she singled out my client."
Mr. Welch works full time in maintenance at a hospital, Ms. Cal said. An architectural design student, he planned to enroll as a sophomore at Eastern Michigan University in the fall, having completed his freshman year at Wayne State University here.
Rare but sensational crimes have a way of dogging Detroit, where residents worry openly and often about the city's tattered national image. "Say Nice Things About Detroit!" reads a sign outside a downtown pizzeria. Many hope fluttering signs of economic recovery and a declining murder rate herald a turnaround under the leadership of an aggressive and popular new Mayor, Dennis Archer.
But last week a man was arrested and accused of using Krazy Glue to seal his 5-year-old daughter's eyes. Then Ms. Word was attacked. Her body was found later Saturday morning about 10 miles down river from the bridge. She had drowned, according to the medical examiner's office. One of her legs had been cut off, apparently by a boat's propeller.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Deletha Word, 33, whose death has transfixed Detroit. After she was involved in a traffic accident early Saturday, she was chased into a river as people watched. (Associated Press); Martel Welch Jr., 19, yesterday as he was charged with second-degree murder in the death of Deletha Word. Mr. Welch pleaded not guilty in a Detroit courtroom and his bail was set at $250,000. (Associated Press)(pg. A18); Dortha Word, with her head down, prayed with friends yesterday at the bridge where her daughter died. (Steve Nickerson/The Detroit Free Press)(pg. A1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT POLICE DEPARTMENT (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT POLICE DEPARTMENT (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT (MICH); UNITED STATES (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (95%); DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; AUTOMOBILES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); MURDER (77%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (62%); SUBURBS (62%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: WORD, DELETHA; WELCH, MARTEL JR; BENNET, JAMES MARTEL WELCH JR (92%); BENNY N NAPOLEON (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1995



444 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Budget Office Sees Rise in Deficit

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22 -

 BODY:
Without changes in spending, the budget deficit will nearly triple within a decade after sinking to a six-year low this year, the Congressional Budget Office predicted today.
In an update of its budget and economic forecast, the office said the deficit for the 1995 fiscal year ending Sept. 30 will total $161 billion, $13 billion lower than estimated in April. Three weeks ago, the Clinton Administration projected a $160 billion deficit. 
 If the forecast is accurate, a deficit of $160 billion or $161 billion would mark the third consecutive year of a decline and would be the lowest since 1989.
As a percentage of the economy, it would be the lowest since 1979.
But the Congressional office warned that unless Congress follows through on vows to sharply cut spending, the deficit under current law will begin to grow again in 1996 and hit $462 billion by 2005.
A budget blueprint adopted by Congress in June maps a plan for eliminating the deficit by 2002, but lawmakers have not yet completed specific spending bills putting the plan into effect.
President Clinton, meanwhile, has proposed a plan to eliminate the deficit by 2004. But the Congressional Budget Office, which uses slightly more pessimistic economic assumptions than the Administration, said that Mr. Clinton's plan would still leave a $200 billion deficit in both 2004 and 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (73%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (69%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



445 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan President Throws His Hat in a Powder Keg

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, Aug. 23

 BODY:
Shouting defiance of mainland China and calling on his divided Nationalist Party to rally around him, President Lee Teng-hui announced today that he would run in the island's first democratic presidential election.
Facing nearly 2,000 delegates of the Nationalist Party, whose forces fled mainland China in 1949, Mr. Lee, 72, embarked on a political campaign that is likely to further inflame relations with Beijing. 
 Although Mr. Lee has never endorsed independence for Taiwan, his wooing of the ethnic Taiwanese vote here has already aroused suspicion bordering on paranoia in Beijing, and contributed to a deep estrangement between China and the United States. China has been pursuing a campaign of invective and military pressure in the hope of weakening the Taiwan leader.
Mr. Lee's decision to run, while widely expected, was opposed by some senior members of the Nationalist Party leadership, old-guard supporters of reunification with China. The critics, including two party vice chairmen who spoke bitterly of Mr. Lee today, fear that flirting with pro-independence voters may further antagonize the Communist Party leadership in Beijing.
But despite some important defections, Mr. Lee's domination of the party machinery this week and his strong standing in the numerous opinion polls conducted over the course of the summer -- even as Beijing singled him out for political extinction -- have demonstrated his resilience.
Though it has driven down Taiwan's stock market and depressed real estate prices, the mainland's pressure campaign of military exercises, including ballistic missile firings to within 85 miles of Taiwan's northern coastline, has been politically ineffective thus far, and may have backfired.
One Western diplomat who has monitored the electoral process here said the mainland's tactics were actually "enhancing Lee Teng-hui's electoral chances -- his support has firmed up."
Subjecting the office of President to universal suffrage is the last major step in Taiwan's democratic reform process and the elections next March are likely to make Mr. Lee not only the first democratically selected leader of the 21 million Taiwanese, but he will be distinguished as the first native born President. Both of his predecessors, Chiang Kai-shek and his son were born on the mainland.
This fact of birth has imbued Mr. Lee with the political cachet of a populist Taiwanese figure who may secretly harbor aspirations for an independent Taiwan despite Nationalist Party orthodoxy that Taiwan and the "motherland" will be reunited.
Where Beijing's leaders believe Mr. Lee, through his campaign to raise Taiwan's political profile internationally and to get the island re-seated in the United Nations, is charting a course for Taiwan independence, Mr. Lee says he is merely "promoting" the economic and democratic achievements of the island.
Taiwan's population is divided among those who want to someday reunify with the mainland, those who want formal independence and those who prefer to wait and see while enjoying the de facto independence that Taiwan has lived under for more than four decades.
Beijing has long warned that a formal declaration of independence would be an act against the sovereign concept of "one China" and would draw a military response.
In the presidential race, opinion polls conducted this month have shown that in a field of five candidates, Mr. Lee commands between 30 and 40 percent of the electorate. His strongest rival, Chen Li-an, who gave up his Nationalist Party membership last week to run on a platform of restoring harmony in relations with the mainland, has polled between 13 and 23 percent. The other contenders, including the openly pro-independence candidates, are polling under 10 percent, an indication that Mr. Lee himself has finessed the independence issue by charting what appears to be a course toward independence while denying that is his purpose.
Mr. Lee's announcement followed two muscular speeches in which he admonished his Communist rivals on the mainland to "face up to history and reality" about Taiwan's status in the region. He vowed to continue his crusade for greater political recognition for the island in disregard to military bluster from the mainland.
"We will carry out this policy and not accept any suppression," he said during his main address to the delegates on Tuesday.
The Nationalists currently hold 58 percent of the seats in Parliament, a majority that has continuously withered in recent years from gains made by the Democratic Progressive Party, which favors independence for Taiwan, and the New Party, a smaller group of former Nationalist Party members disaffected over a range of issues, including corruption.
Mr. Lee's candidacy will be ratified by a rubber stamp vote of delegates on Aug. 31. His only opponent within the party withdrew his challenge but said he would seek independent public support for his candidacy. Rival bids for the presidency are being mounted by at least three other candidates, two of whom are defectors from the top ranks of Mr. Lee's party.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Lee Teng-hui of Taiwan announcing his candidacy for a second term. (Agence France-Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (95%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONALIST PARTY (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONALIST PARTY (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (95%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ELECTIONS; TAIWAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SEPARATISM & SECESSION (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); REAL ESTATE (67%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (64%); 

PERSON: TENG-HUI, LEE (PRES); TYLER, PATRICK E LEE TENG-HUI (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



446 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Federal Agencies Are Planning a Shutdown in the Event of a Budget Deadlock

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 23

 BODY:
Raising a warning flag about a possible budget deadlock when Congress returns next month, the White House said today that Federal agencies were preparing plans to shut down most operations in October should President Clinton and Republicans deadlock over a budget for the next fiscal year.
The order to prepare for closings came in a memorandum issued today by Mr. Clinton's budget director, Alice M. Rivlin, who said Administration officials "very much don't want it to happen" and were willing to negotiate with Republicans to avoid it. 
 But in fact, the order starts what will probably be a pitched public relations battle between two branches of Government over which would be blamed in the event of a string of closings that many say are inevitable and that Administration officials said could last days or even weeks.
Some Republicans, especially in the more conservative House, favor just such a showdown. They reason that Mr. Clinton will be seen as a big spender who is willing to close the Government down rather than let Republicans pare it back.
Most Democrats would prefer to strike a deal, hoping to be viewed as the force that moderates a Republican majority run amok. But Ms. Rivlin's order underscored the White House's determination, already made clear in a round of veto threats, to be seen as a defender of essential Federal services against Congressional attack.
"Congress can get these decisions made without shutting down the Government," Ms. Rivlin said. "We very much hope there's a full, frank and honest discussion of these issues before the deadline passes."
Republicans scoffed at the memorandum, calling it an attempt to frighten the public. Only days ago, they noted, the White House issued another directive ordering the same agencies to draft plans to shrink themselves should the Republican spending bills become law.
"It's the President who forces a shutdown of the Government anyway if he vetoes legislation we send up," said the staff director of the House Budget Committee, Richard E. May.
As a legal opinion that accompanied Ms. Rivlin's order noted, a shutdown of the entire Government is not in the cards, no matter how much Mr. Clinton and the Congress are at loggerheads. Even in the worst case, most Federal agencies would continue to provide essential services, and many benefit checks would continue to flow to retirees and, probably, the poor.
But unlike the seven previous times in which budget standoffs have shuttered some Federal agencies -- all in the 1980's and 1990's, and all for a few hours or days at most -- the fight brewing over Federal spending this fall is potentially much more serious, long-lasting and disruptive.
Ms. Rivlin's short memorandum, which directed agencies to complete plans by Sept. 5 for a shutdown, cited only "a possible appropriations hiatus." The longest Federal shutdown to date lasted but three days, in 1990, and even that closing affected only a weekend and a Columbus Day holiday.
But today, Administration officials made it clear in interviews that they are girding for a budget fight that could close parts of the Government for days or weeks, affecting not just Federal services but perhaps the economy as well.
At stake are the fates of 13 spending bills, covering next year's budgets for most of the bureaucracy and a number of benefit programs, that Republicans intend to send to the President next month. Most propose to freeze or reduce the budgets of many Federal agencies and programs, and some would abolish programs and agencies outright.
Mr. Clinton has already pledged to veto more than half the bills in their present form, including those covering farm programs, Medicaid and other services to the poor, national parks and Federal lands, and the State, Commerce, Veterans and Treasury Departments. But a veto carries consequences: any agency without a legal budget on Oct. 1, the start of the new fiscal year, must end all but essential operations until Congress and the White House agree to give it money.
The two sides could decide to finance those agencies temporarily until they can work out their differences. But those differences are so vast, and the politics of the budget fight are so explosive, that the chances of a quick resolution are remote.
The Justice Department opinion attached to Ms. Rivlin's order stated that any agency without a budget would be barred from spending money, entering new contracts or performing any duties beyond those that needed to protect human lives and property "in some significant degree."
As a practical matter, officials said, even a brief shutdown would require agencies to furlough most office workers without pay and to curtail virtually all duties except policing, national defense, medical care and safety-related work like air-traffic control.
But both Administration officials the Justice Department opinion suggested that a lengthier standoff could have more drastic consequences.
Ms. Rivlin said, for example, that a prolonged fight over social spending could force the Government to suspend its share of payments for state-run Medicaid services to the poor, and perhaps other social services as well.
"States would not get their grants," she said, "and they wouldn't get their matching money. And they would be up to states to figure out how long they could go on making payments if the Federal Government wasn't going to help."
In meetings earlier this week, White House and Cabinet officials suggested that social agencies would be barred from enrolling new recipients and perhaps from sending welfare checks to existing beneficiaries. A battle over Interior Department spending would shut the national parks; a fight over the State Department budget could shut embassies and visa offices.
Some officials said the Administration had discussed whether a lengthy dispute would force an end to services that are vital to the economy, like air-traffic control. The Justice Department opinion stated that such a function was obviously essential to the safety of human lives in the short run. But whether air traffic control is a vital service that must be supported over a longer period may be in more doubt because aircraft could be grounded, eliminating the danger of crashes.
"There's nothing written in statute here," Stanley Collender, an budget expert with the accounting firm of Price-Waterhouse, said of the possibilities of a shutdown. "This is an art, not a science, and it could easily be left open for interpretation."
Republicans said today that they anticipated such a gesture and that they might send legislation to the President that specifically appropriates money for such vital and politically important services. That would place the onus on Mr. Clinton to sign the appropriation or take the full responsibility for any Federal cutbacks that result.
That is the sort of chess game, Mr. Collender said today, that will probably persist throughout the autumn budget debate. "The question is who's going to get blamed," he said. "The tradition is that the President gets blamed in these situations, but remember, since November, the Republicans have been saying they're in charge. Or we could have a situation that's like the baseball strike, where the public gets mad at both the owners and the players -- and nobody wins."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VETO (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



447 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Killings by Teen-Agers Up Sharply in Canada

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH 

DATELINE: LA RONGE, Saskatchewan

 BODY:
Johnathan George Thimpsen was born in this isolated Indian community on Dec. 30, 1987, and was killed here on July 8, 1995.
Playful and outgoing, he had a winsome smile and a couple of missing front teeth. His hero was Zorro, the masked, caped, sword-wielding vanquisher of villains. 
 His body was found on July 11 in the aspen and cedar woods a few hundred yards from his grandmother's house on Sinotte Crescent. His throat was slashed, his head crushed.
The police arrested a 14-year-old boy and a 7-year-old accomplice, stunning this former fur-trading outpost, now a mining center, nearly 400 miles north of Regina.
The arrest of the children highlighted a rise in killings committed by Canadian youths. Among other high-profile cases in recent weeks: two 14-year-old girls were charged with stabbing a man to death in Calgary; the police arrested five teen-agers for beating a fisherman to death in Prince Rupert; six teen-agers were apprehended for the death of a man on welfare living in a tent in Dawson City.
Although Canada considers the United States a hotbed of crime, the numbers show Canada catching up, and killings by youngsters in Canada are up sharply. During all of the 1960's, there were 75 homicide suspects under the age of 16, according to Statistics Canada, the Government's statistical agency. But in the three years from 1992 through 1994, after the youth crime category was changed to include 17-year-old's, there were 150 such suspects.
"Use any word you want -- shocking, scary, frightening," said Barb Riley, a reporter for The Northerner, the local weekly, "but it's something the people here want to address and find answers for, and I think they're starting down that road."
One answer appears to be in easing the wretched conditions in aboriginal communities plagued by poverty, alcoholism, drug abuse and painful cultural uprooting.
A hearing in November will determine whether the 14-year-old, who is charged with first-degree murder and is in custody in Saskatoon, will be tried as an adult.
The 7-year-old, a cousin of the victim, is too young to be charged and has been turned over to Social Services workers. Criminal responsibility begins in Canada at age 12.
The Young Offenders Act bars identification of either boy.
When a bail hearing was held for the accused last month at the La Ronge courthouse, "a slight, light-skinned native youth shuffled into the court, took his place in the prisoner's dock, looked briefly around the room, and then buried his head on his knees for the balance of the proceedings," wrote the news magazine Western Report,
According to those who knew him, the teen-ager, raised by a single mother, was not considered a trouble-maker. He was described as studious and even took part in a science fair mounted this year by his seventh-grade class at the Churchill School, a junior high and high school.
"Not your stereotypical, tattooed punk hanging out in the pool hall," noted one resident, who asked not to be identified.
La Ronge is an area of 5,500 people, mostly young, mostly Indian. Unemployment has been as high as 50 percent. Much of the work is seasonal, like harvesting and bagging wild rice after the short summer.
Although gold and uranium mining and diamond prospecting are on the upswing in the region, many employers tend to import technicians, engineers, surveyors and other specialists from the south.
Michelle Harding is the elected area director for the Metis Nation of Saskatchewan, representing people of mixed white-Indian ancestry, a large proportion of the town. She ruminated as she sipped coffee behind her desk in an office on La Ronge Avenue, the town's main drag along the banks of a vast lake:
"We've not only lost Johnathan, but we've lost another child, and possibly a third, and I think sadly about what their lives could have been like, and also I think what could force an innocent child, or should be innocent at 14, to do something so heinous."
Because of the publication ban, it may be months before any of this is known. Yet some indication of the torment of many youths is reflected by calls that come into a telephone crisis line operated by the La Ronge Native Women's Council.
Last year the center received calls about 514 children. The calls related to parents drinking, abandoned children, safety at risk, parental battery, other battery, sexual assault, suicide attempts by the child, suicide attempts by the parent, substance abuse, domestic disputes, parents in crisis and runaways from foster care. Two-thirds of the total crisis calls were about children.
"There must be some full-scale concerted effort to heal the families of this community," said Cec Allen, who is in charge of a project to build a local child shelter for the Native Women's Council. "If not, we won't have any community left."
Already there are signs the community is fraying. Five people were slain here in 1993, giving the town brief statistical notoriety as Canada's murder capital. Sexual assaults are rife.
As in other northern communities, La Ronge is plagued by a high rate of suicides, especially among youths, a further sign of the economic and social depression and cultural dysfunction that are part of life here.
The high rates of poverty, unemployment and substance abuse, combined with low levels of education and the prevalence of single motherhood, give many northern Indian communities characteristics similar to inner cities of the United States, said Irvin Waller, a University of Ottawa criminologist.
Another "disturbing parallel," he said, is access to firearms, handguns in the American inner cities, long guns used for hunting in the north.
Until a generation ago, said Prof. Doug Durst of the Department of Social Work at the University of Regina, Indians were routinely educated in residential schools where they had to abandon their language and culture. Beatings reinforced lessons. Widespread sexual abuse has also been documented.
"Having been abused physically and sexually, parents from those schools are not good parents themselves," Professor Durst said. "A whole population is caught between two worlds, troubled and confused."
For the children who knew Johnathan Thimpsen, the loss was painful and troubling.
"When we think about this, we're just crying all time," said Jaya Ramayya, assistant director at the day-care cooperative where Johnathan had been taken daily by his mother, Cindy Thimpsen. At a ceremony last month, mental health experts from the Lac La Ronge Indian Band urged the children to write short notes to Johnathan and slip them into helium balloons that ascended to the heavens.
"Many wrote, 'We love you, Johnathan'," Ms. Ramayya recalled. "It rained, and so the children noted that Johnathan's tears were falling."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Johnathan Thimpsen was 7, and enrolled in a day care center that misspelled his name, when he was killed last month. (La Ronge Child Care Cooperative)
 
Map of Canada showing location of La Ronge.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (91%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (71%); ALBERTA, CANADA (56%); 

COMPANY: LA RONGE NATIVE WOMEN'S COUNCIL (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: LA RONGE NATIVE WOMEN'S COUNCIL (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; SASKATCHEWAN (CANADA); CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); SASKATCHEWAN, CANADA (91%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (71%); ALBERTA, CANADA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); JUVENILE CRIME (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (89%); CHILDREN (88%); MURDER (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); BAIL (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); STATISTICS (64%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (61%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (61%); 

PERSON: THIMPSEN, JOHNATHAN GEORGE; FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H JOHNATHAN GEORGE THIMPSEN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



448 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Threat to Cut E.P.A. Budget Reflects a New Political Shift

BYLINE: By JANE FRITSCH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 23

 BODY:
The voice-mail message from Senator Frank H. Murkowski's aide was polite but firm. The Senator wanted some answers from the Environmental Protection Agency about its case against the Alaska Pulp Corporation, a case the Alaska Republican thought was baseless.
"We would prefer not to have to do anything with an appropriations rider on this," said the aide, Maureen Koetz. 
 It was Washington jargon, but to officials at the agency's office in Seattle, the meaning was both clear and infuriating: They would have to drop their plans to put Alaska Pulp's Sitka plant on the Superfund list, the Federal program of cleaning up toxic waste sites, or face untold consequences at budget time.
"They're trying to intimidate us," said John R. Meyer, a Superfund manager in Seattle. "They're saying that if we don't weaken our position or back down on the investigation, 'We will attach a rider, and do what we can to stop you.' "
ngressional offices about specific matters are hardly unusual. Indeed, Congressional offices have staff members who work full time on problems their constituents encounter with the Federal bureaucracy.
But the Alaska Pulp incident represents a more direct and unabashed level of interference with the executive branch by some in Congress. Emboldened by what they regard as a mandate from voters last November, some Republicans are using their legislative power to limit actions by Federal agencies, particularly regulatory ones.
Riders to appropriations bills are a simple, direct and increasingly popular way to tie the hands of the agencies. The riders either eliminate money for a particular activity or ban the activity outright. One recent rider, for example, cut out financing for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to develop standards to deal with worker injuries from repetitive motions or lifting. The rider was sought by industries and trade groups whose workers lift heavy loads or are subjected to repetitive stress injuries.
For now, the environmental agency is proceeding with its plans to go after Alaska Pulp, a Japanese-owned company that had dumped at least a million pounds of dioxin-contaminated waste into Silver Bay near Sitka before the agency ordered it to stop in 1990. The company said the waste contained only minute amounts of dioxin.
The bay is heavily used by commercial fishermen, who catch as much as 800,000 pounds of salmon there each year. If the site is placed on the Superfund list, Alaska Pulp would be made liable for damage to the bay and would be forced to pay for studies to determine whether the fish are too contaminated for human consumption.
Rollo Pool, a consultant for Alaska Pulp, said today that the company is trying to cooperate with the environmental agency, but believes that the Superfund designation is unwarranted. He said the listing would make it virtually impossible to attract investors to redevelop the site, one of the few suitable industrial sites in southeastern Alaska.
Dioxin and its chemical cousins are a potent cause of cancer in animals and a possible cause of cancer and other diseases in humans, according to a study released by the environmental agency last year. The chemicals are byproducts of a number of industrial processes, like the chlorine bleaching of pulp done by Alaska Pulp in Sitka.
Alaska Pulp closed the plant in 1993 and announced plans to convert it to produce fiberboard, a process that causes less pollution and could be more profitable. The company has since abandoned those plans, Mr. Pool said.
Senator Murkowski was on vacation and could not be reached this week, but his aides said that he had become involved in the Alaska Pulp matter at the request of constituents and because he is concerned about unemployment in southeastern Alaska. Being listed as a Superfund site would be like a "scarlet letter" for Alaska Pulp that would scare off potential purchasers and investors, said David Fish, a spokesman for the Senate Natural Resources Committee, which Mr. Murkowski heads.
And the Superfund designation would mean years of litigation that could keep the plant from reopening, Mr. Fish said. He added that there was strong support for Mr. Murkowski's position among local officials in southeastern Alaska.
But there is also opposition. Don Muller, who owns a bookstore in Sitka and has been active in the campaign against Alaska Pulp, says there has been a remarkable reversal in public opinion about the mill since it closed two years ago. Hazy skies and water that was virtually always brown are now "crystal clear," he said, adding, "People are seeing Sitka for the first time."
Mr. Muller says most of the people in Sitka no longer want the mill or Alaska Pulp Corporation to return. "The clearing of the water and the air in Sitka has opened a lot of people's eyes," he said.
For the environmental agency, the voice-mail message from Ms. Koetz two weeks ago was the unwelcome culmination of a series of letters questioning the agency's pursuit of Alaska Pulp. Two other Alaska Republicans -- Don Young, the state's only Representative, and Ted Stevens, its other Senator -- co-signed the letters with Mr. Murkowski.
In recent years, officials of Alaska Pulp have donated to Mr. Young's campaigns and to Republican Party committees that give money to House and Senate candidates.
In his most recent letter, dated Aug. 4, Mr. Murkowski said that he was "not satisfied" that the Alaska Pulp site met the criteria for inclusion on the Superfund list and asked the E.P.A. to provide him with the studies that measured levels of contaminants, as well as estimates of the health risks if nothing is done.
Mr. Meyer, of the agency's Seattle office, said in an interview this week that Mr. Murkowski was asking for the impossible. The agency wants to put Alaska Pulp on the Superfund list so that the company can be made to pay for the research that will answer those questions, he said, adding, "If we can't do the research, we can't get to that endpoint."
The agency has already met the criteria to justify a Superfund listing, he said, by proving that there was a significant release of a hazardous substance into the bay and that public health could be threatened.
"What you have here is one of the most blatant and obvious examples of discharge of a hazardous substance into a bay that is a commercial fishery," Mr. Meyer said. "There's people who eat that stuff, and we can't tell them whether there's a problem or not.
"What the American public is owed in a situation like this is a fair and objective study of the bay to determine whether the seafood there is contaminated or not," he said.
Ms. Koetz, the counsel to the Senate Natural Resources Committee who left the voice-mail message, said the committee is considering what actions it might take if it remains dissatisfied with the agency's handling of the Alaska Pulp issue. Further, she said, Republicans are doing a broad re-evaluation of assumptions about the risks of chemicals, and are concerned about the what they see as the overuse of the Superfund law.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Alaska Pulp plant, in foreground, dumped dioxin-contaminated waste into Silver Bay in Sitka, Alaska, before it was ordered to stop in 1990. Senator Frank H. Murkowski of Alaska opposes plans to put a pulp plant on the Superfund list. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. B12)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC2611 PULP MILLS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA); ALASKA PULP CORP ALASKA PULP CORP (94%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA); ALASKA PULP CORP US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ALASKA; UNITED STATES (96%); ALASKA, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; WATER POLLUTION; DIOXIN (CHEMICAL); HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; FINANCES ; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SUPERFUND US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); SUPERFUND (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (71%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (68%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (60%); 

PERSON: FRITSCH, JANE; MURKOWSKI, FRANK H (SEN) LISA MURKOWSKI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



449 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Getting Around Goldman at Rockefeller Center

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
The battle for control of Rockefeller Center is raging, but a loophole in a loan agreement could handicap one tough contender for the trophy property, Goldman, Sachs & Company.
Goldman and its many and diverse relationships with the real estate investment trust, Rockefeller Center Properties Inc., which holds the $1.3 billion mortgage on the center, present a substantial hurdle for bidders competing for the property. 
 But the bidders for Rockefeller Center that have emerged so far -- groups led by Jerry I. Speyer, the New York developer, and Sam Zell, the Chicago investor -- may be counting on having found a way to curtail Goldman's influence by using the provisions and terms of the loans Goldman made to the real estate investment trust, or REIT.
Those terms, which were part of a $225 million rescue package Goldman and its Whitehall Street Real Estate Limited Partnership V gave to the Rockefeller REIT last year when it faced insolvency, give Goldman an unusual degree of influence over the REIT's affairs, including warrants and stock appreciation rights that confer the potential to gain a large ownership stake.
The REIT is by far the largest creditor of Rockefeller Center, whose owners filed for bankruptcy protection in May, and gaining its support will be critical for anyone hoping to win control of the property.
Winning the support of the REIT means either winning Goldman's support, which will come only at a considerable price, or finding a way around it.
Goldman's influence is grounded in a provision tied to Whitehall's chunk of the rescue package, debentures with a face value of $75 million and a 14 percent interest rate. The loan documents appear to prohibit the REIT from paying off those debentures until Dec. 31, 2000. That would allow Goldman to remain its chief creditor.
But because the prohibition is not ironclad, Goldman could lose its seat at the bargaining table during negotiations to bring Rockefeller Center out of bankruptcy.
According to the loan agreements, the REIT is obliged to use any cash it does not need to cover its net cash flow -- operating expenses, interest payments and stock dividends -- to pay back Goldman and Whitehall.
That provision has forced the REIT into its latest cash squeeze. On Sept. 1, it is bound to turn over almost all of its free cash to Goldman. And because its sole source of income, the payment on its mortgage, is tied up in bankruptcy proceedings, it once again faces insolvency unless Goldman waives the loan requirements.
The loan documents also stipulate that if the REIT has paid off the $150 million it owes the Goldman Sachs Mortgage Company, the Goldman subsidiary that participated in the rescue package, the REIT must use its net cash flow to pay off the Whitehall debentures, even if that occurred before Dec. 31, 2000.
It is that loophole that the Zell and Speyer groups hope to slip through. The Zell proposal would use as much as $250 million to pay down debt, and people familiar with the proposal say the Goldman debt is the one that would be paid off. The Speyer proposal would pay off all of the REIT's debt.
Prepaying the loans would lessen Goldman's considerable influence in the tussle over Rockefeller Center and save the trust and its shareholders several million dollars in interest payments.
But even if the loans were prepaid -- and Goldman is not likely to let its competitors slip through the loophole without a brutal legal tussle -- the firm would continue to have a role in the outcome of the fight over Rockefeller Center.
Daniel M. Neidich, the Goldman partner that heads Whitehall, declined to comment.
But a person familiar with Goldman's discussions about its loans says the firm is not really concerned about losing the debt because it is convinced that other provisions of its loan insure that, debt or no debt, it will own at least 20 percent of Rockefeller Center.
If the loans were prepaid, Whitehall would continue to own warrants that entitle it to buy 9.8 percent of the REIT's stock for $5 a share, and the agreement underlying those warrants allow it to maintain a voice in the REIT's affairs.
Although the warrants confer no voting rights, Whitehall is allowed to weigh in on matters that will be put to the REIT shareholders for a vote. If it does not approve of a proposal, the proposal must receive the approval of 62.5 percent of the outstanding shares.
Delaware law, however, may override the 62.5 percent requirement in some cases, like a vote on a merger or acquisition, which would likely require approval of a simple majority of the REIT's shareholders, if the board has already given its approval.
In the event of an acquisition that would dissolve the REIT and create a new company to hold the mortgage, as both the Speyer and Zell proposals envision, Whitehall would be entitled to the difference between the $5 exercise price of its warrants and the price stockholders receive for their shares -- as long as the price was equal to or higher than fair market value, as defined in the loan documents.
Either the Zell or Speyer deal may not meet the fair-market value test.
Goldman could also choose to exercise its shares and become a shareholder of the company that succeeded the REIT -- and a partner with Mr. Zell or Mr. Speyer.
The same provisions apply to Whitehall's stock appreciation rights, which can be exchanged for warrants enabling it to buy a 10.1 percent stake for $5 a share.
There are questions, however, about the stock appreciation rights. They give potential additional ownership to Whitehall because the rights can be converted to warrants. So they may not be valid under the REIT's certificate of incorporation, which limits the amount of stock that can be held by any person or entity to 9.8 percent.
Lawyers for the REIT, at the firm of Shearman & Sterling, have said they do not believe those rights violate the certificate.
Mr. Speyer or Mr. Zell may be able to weaken Goldman's power, but neither is relying too heavily on loopholes and technicalities. Both have courted Mr. Neidich of Whitehall, as have other potential combatants in the battle for Rockefeller Center, knowing they may well end up as Goldman's partner.
"These are smart people," a potential investor said, "and you don't ever count them out." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (85%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (69%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: ROCKEFELLER CENTER PROPERTIES INC; GOLDMAN SACHS & CO GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); ROCKEFELLER CENTER PROPERTIES INC (85%); WHITEHALL STREET GLOBAL REAL ESTATE LP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKEFELLER CENTER PROPERTIES INC; GOLDMAN SACHS & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCKEFELLER CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (70%); DIVIDENDS (67%); CASH FLOW (66%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE; SPEYER, JERRY I; ZELL, SAM SAM ZELL (68%); JERRY I SPEYER (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



450 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Pirates Are Circling the Good Ship Windows 95

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
William H. Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, has spent this week on the television talk-show hustings, from "Larry King Live" to "Good Morning America," extolling the virtues of Windows 95, which goes on sale today.
But last week, a software expert of sorts beat Mr. Gates to market, telling Dutch television that there was no reason to wait. Interviewed off-camera and dubbed Pete the Pirate, he asserted that he already had 50,000 illicit copies of Windows 95 ready for sale. 
 Piracy hype, reply executives at the Microsoft Corporation, who know something about aggressive marketing themselves. Most likely, the executives say, the European software pirate has made bootleg copies of a recent test, or beta, version of Windows 95.
But David Curtis, a general counsel at Microsoft who heads its worldwide antipiracy effort, acknowledges that the final version of Windows 95 has already appeared on a couple of computer bulletin boards. And, he says, it is at most a matter of weeks before high-quality counterfeit copies of Microsoft's new operating-system software are on the market.
"We're expecting a significant problem," Mr. Curtis said. "Windows 95 has generated so much legitimate interest that you have to recognize that it will generate plenty of illegal activity as well."
Windows 95, the successor to the DOS and Windows software that runs 100 million PC's, is expected to be the most successful program in software history, and thus is expected to be the biggest opportunity ever for software pirates.
"Microsoft has to be scared silly that this product will be ripped off like no other," said John C. Dvorak, a columnist for PC Magazine.
Without question, Microsoft's new program presents the American software industry and law-enforcement agencies with their greatest challenge in trying to stem the tide of illegal software. The Business Software Alliance, a Washington trade group, estimates that the industry lost $15.2 billion worldwide to piracy last year.
Microsoft declined to disclose its internal estimate of piracy losses, but the software alliance says that if piracy were eradicated, industry revenue would double.
And Windows 95 is coming onto the market as the traffic in illegal software is becoming increasingly sophisticated and organized.
Most pirated software consists of copies made illegally by people in corporate offices, government agencies, schools and homes.
A person or company may buy a legitimate copy of a word-processing or spreadsheet program, for example, and then lend the disks to friends and colleagues. Each use, beyond the original purchaser, is a violation of copyright law, and therefore illegal. Roughly 90 percent of the illegal use of software in the United States comes from this kind of unorganized and informal copying.
But in recent years, professional counterfeiters have become more numerous and skilled. Some employ factories that turn out disks, while others focus on packaging and manuals.
Counterfeit software, which typically sells for a tiny fraction of the cost of the original version, is mainly sold abroad, so someone going to a major American retailer for Windows 95 runs no real risk of unwittingly buying a counterfeit copy.
Still, as the professional thieves make better and better copies, they have begun to sell in the huge American market, say law enforcement officials, who expect that counterfeit versions of Windows 95 will eventually show up in the United States.
Pirated programs are more likely to have viruses and flaws than legal software, and customer support services are not available.
The industry plays a constant cat-and-mouse game with the counterfeiters. Company innovations are quickly mimicked by the professional pirates, prompting new steps from the software producers. In 1991, for example, Microsoft began putting holograms on packages -- shiny, reflective images of various kinds -- to deter counterfeiting and make fake boxes easier to spot.
"The holograms weren't as hard to copy as we thought at the start," Mr. Curtis said.
In 1992, Microsoft, working with police in several countries, filed suit against the Shenzhen Reflective Materials Institute in China's Guangdong Province, which was illegally churning out Microsoft holograms. Papers seized in a police raid on the factory, Mr. Curtis said, indicated that Shenzhen Institute had orders for 3 million holograms. The counterfeiters were prosecuted by the Chinese Government, but their punishment was a mere $5,000 fine.
Two years ago, Microsoft began placing white, oval-shaped stickers on its boxes. The stickers are treated so that under a special light, a distinctive pattern appears.
Microsoft, as the industry leader, has made the most aggressive push to thwart software pirates. The antipiracy team, headed by Mr. Curtis, has doubled in the last two years, to 80 people. The company has also hired a corps of lawyers and outside investigators for its antipiracy efforts in 70 countries.
The investigators, Mr. Curtis explains, try to "get in there early to stop counterfeiters before they really get going." Investigations vary, but they can involve an array of cloak-and-dagger techniques, including digging through trash bins, paying locals to spy and posing as crooks to gather evidence.
Microsoft and other software companies have also pushed hard for tighter copyright protections for software aboard. Italy is the industry's great success story. In December 1992, the Italian Government passed tough software protection legislation at the urging of American companies and a European Community directive on software.
The next year, Italy's tax authorities began enforcing the new law by going into companies and conducting audits of software use. The companies complied, erasing their illegally copied software and replacing it with legal copies purchased from software makers like Microsoft, Lotus and Novell. As a result, Italy's software piracy rate -- illegal copies as a share of total use -- dropped from an estimated 86 percent to 50 percent in a year.
"It was the single largest reduction in software piracy that we've seen anywhere in the world," said Robert W. Holleyman 2d, president of the Business Software Alliance.
Mr. Holleyman and the antipiracy team at Microsoft should be in business for years to come. The software piracy rate is more than 95 percent in a number of big markets, including China, Russia, Indonesia, Pakistan, Thailand and the Philippines.
Many analysts, however, especially in developing countries, view the high percentages with far less alarm than people in the software industry. Skeptics say much of the copying can be seen as a natural stage of economic and technological evolution.
In the 19th century, they note, the American publishing industry got a kick-start by printing pirated copies of English novels. An angry Charles Dickens, who came to the United States, just as Microsoft is now venturing abroad, to try to enforce his legal copyright and collect payment, met with little success early on.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Microsoft's antipiracy manager for the Netherlands, Hans Ranselaar, held up illegal CD-ROM copies of Windows 95 software at the company's office in Hoofddorp last week. Company executives said 50,000 such copies might be circulating in the Netherlands. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (90%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS SOFTWARE ALLIANCE MICROSOFT CORP (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSINESS SOFTWARE ALLIANCE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (90%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY; COUNTERFEITING COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); MARITIME PIRACY (90%); COUNTERFEITING (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); COPYRIGHT LAW (75%); SPREADSHEET SOFTWARE (72%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (72%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (71%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (71%); COPYRIGHT (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); LAWYERS (67%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (67%); WRITERS (63%); ESPIONAGE (59%); 

PERSON: CURTIS, DAVID; LOHR, STEVE BILL GATES (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



451 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: A New Wave of Immigrants On Farming's Lowest Rung

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: MADERA, Calif., Aug. 19

 BODY:
It is still and silent and unbearably hot here in the heart of raisin country. Migrant farm workers who have gathered from around the state and from Mexico sit motionless in the shade as the hard yellow grapes, in thousands of acres of vineyards, grow sweeter and heavier on the vine, almost ready for the clamor of the harvest.
The grape harvest is an autumn ritual as old as California, but there is a change. Most of the migrant workers here in Madera do not speak Spanish. They are Mixtec Indians from the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca, who, along with an influx of indigenous groups from Central and South America, are changing the face of America's farm labor force. 
 From the strawberry fields of San Diego County to the apple orchards of Oregon to the tomato farms of Florida to the fields of grapes and garlic here in central California, Mixtec and Zapotec Indians have joined a dozen Mayan tribes from Guatemala as the menials in the agricultural work force.
No accurate counts of this shifting migratory work force exist, but estimates of Mixtec Indians, the largest indigenous group in California, range upward of 50,000, a little more than 6 percent, of the state's mostly Spanish-speaking Mexican farm labor force of 800,000. Among the most recent arrivals from across the Mexican border, the proportion appears to be much higher. A survey of 241 migrant farm workers interviewed at 19 labor camps in north San Diego County, conducted by a local health center two years ago, found that 40 percent spoke indigenous Indian languages rather than Spanish.
In a startling snapshot of some of the newest elements in America's ethnic mix, the survey by the Vista Community Clinic found speakers of 12 Indian languages including Cakchiquel, Chatmo, Kanjobal, Nahuatl, Otomi, Tlapaneco and Trique as well as Mixteco and Zapoteco.
These groups are the latest in a long history of waves of immigrants who have entered the American work force as agricultural workers in California. They plant and harvest in fields that were worked a century ago by Chinese and Japanese immigrants, and more recently by Filipinos and Mexicans as well as by Depression migrants from Oklahoma and Texas.
As each group has moved up into better paying jobs and established positions in their communities, it has made room at the bottom in a shifting hierarchy of the dispossessed. As Mexican workers now begin to settle and find work in landscaping, construction and the service industries, the cycle is continuing.
And as the Mixtec Indians themselves begin to cluster in large enough numbers to assert their rights, they, too, are creating an even lower niche for small groups of Mayan Indians who are willing to work for subsistence wages and to sleep in cars or holes in the ground.
The proliferation of Indian languages was observed by the community clinic in an area where the Hispanic population, including indigenous groups, grew by nearly 200 percent during the 1980's, to 25 percent of the population of the town of Vista.
That local growth spurt reflects a broad shift in the state's farm labor force, which a recent survey by Philip Martin, a professor of agricultural economics at the University of California at Davis, found was 82 percent Mexican-born. Mr. Martin said Indian workers tend to be among the most migratory, and so their proportion of the work force is highest at harvest time.
"Before, I used to just have Mexicans here," said Daniel Nazaroff, who owns 130 acres of vineyards near Madera and employs about 50 people at harvest time. "Then, slowly, it changed and now just about all of them are from Oaxaca (pronounced wa-HA-ka). You hear them talking and you realize, that's not Mexican they're speaking."
In Florida, the nation's second- largest agricultural state after California, the increasing number of indigenous workers includes an especially large contingent of Guatemalan Mayan groups, particularly Kanjobal, said Tirso Moreno, the general coordinator of the Farmworkers Association of Florida.
Many work in the tomato fields around Indiantown and Immokalee, Mr. Moreno said, in clusters that have grown rapidly since a surge of government-sponsored violence against Indians in Guatemala in 1987 and 1988.
Experts on California's migrant labor force say the harsh economy of Mexico and its neighbors to the south is driving the poorest villagers north in search of work.
"We are reaching deeper and deeper into Central and South America to find people willing to do the work that people who are born here don't want to do," said Don Villarejo, a professor at the California Institute for Rural Studies in Davis.
"Raisin grape harvesting is probably one of the worst jobs you would ever want to do," Mr. Villarejo said. "It's a job where you need a very large number of people for a very short period of time, and most employers I have spoken to prefer the Mixtecs. They work very, very hard; they don't complain, and they, so to speak, understand the rules of the game."
That game can often mean exploitation. At peak times, the Mixtec workers say, they are in the fields from dawn to dusk and their take-home pay can amount to as little as $3 an hour.
Agustin Ramirez, 40, is one of the earliest members of the Mixtec migration, traveling here seasonally and making the "West Coast circuit" through California, Oregon and Washington for more than 10 years. Mr. Ramirez had just arrived here this weekend at a dusty camp in Madera from Oregon, where he and a dozen family members of working age had been employed in the blueberry and strawberry fields.
"We are waiting for the grapes," he said as his children, who rarely stay in one place long enough to go to school, played nearby in the shade. "We are not sure if we will be hired here, and if we are not, we will keep on moving."
Mr. Ramirez is a legal immigrant, one of a million farm workers who obtained amnesty under a 1986 law, which granted amnesty to longtime undocumented workers. About 25 percent of California's migrant work force is in the country illegally, according to Mr. Martin's figures. But the proportion of undocumented workers among the recent arrivals, including the Mixtecs, is higher than that.
One week ago, several workers here said, agents of the Border Patrol raided the camp at 1 A.M. and removed 46 or 47 people who did not have documentation -- more than two-thirds of the people here.
Mr. Villarejo, of the Institute for Rural Studies, said that in interviews, migrant Mixtec workers have identified more than 200 home villages in Oaxaca and 100 clusters of workers here in California. By all accounts, their ties to their homes remain strong, and in interviews here, most workers said they intended eventually to return to Oaxaca stay. But the wave of migration is so recent that that prediction remains largely untested.
Throughout Oaxaca, farm work in the United States has become a primary industry, supporting entire villages and paying for schools, roads and piped water.
Filemon Lopez, 39, a Mixtec community organizer who has worked in the fields since he was a boy, said that about half the population of 35,000 in his native area of San Juan Mixtepec was now in the United States. Mr. Lopez said his home village of Rio Timbre was bereft of men, much like a wartime village when all the men go off to fight. "If they are young and strong they are here," he said. "Only the elderly stay behind."
The travels of the people from San Juan Mixtepec, as described by Mr. Lopez, offer a sketch of the Mixtec diaspora in the United States, with their largest concentrations here in Madera and in Homestead, Fla.
In Florida, Mr. Lopez said, most migrants work in tomato fields and citrus orchards. In North Carolina, they work in tobacco and sweet potato fields and in toy factories. In West Virginia, they are in chicken processing plants and washing dishes in restaurants. They are restaurant workers in New York as well. In Maine, Mixtec migrants are on poultry farms, in Idaho in potato storage plants; in Arizona, they work in nurseries and on dairy farms; in Michigan, on beet farms.
Along the West Coast corridor they travel from the strawberry and flower and garlic and raisin grape fields of California to the apple and cherry orchards, nurseries and canneries of Oregon to the cherries and pears and apple orchards of Washington State, and back again, following the seasons.
In recent years, as with mestizo Mexican migrants before them, the Mixtecs have worked out migratory patterns and support systems that provide avenues to housing and jobs for newcomers.
Mr. Lopez and others have also begun to organize to protect their rights from the mostly Mexican-American supervisors, who, they say, often exploit them by paying them too little and by deducting portions of their pay, unasked, for transportation, lodging and food.
The concentration of Mixtec workers has grown so large here in Madera -- perhaps 5,000 people -- that a local school recently hired a bilingual aide to help communicate with migrant children and their parents.
But in an indication of the new migrants' distance from mainstream American culture, the bilingual aide speaks only Mixtec and Spanish. He is taking English lessons, Mr. Lopez said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Agustin Ramirez, a Mixtec Indian, has been working a "West Coast circuit" of farms in Washington, Oregon and California for 10 years. His family, including his daughters Irene, 3, and Catalina, 4, travels with him. (Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. b13)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); OREGON, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MIXTEC INDIANS (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); OREGON, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; MIGRANT LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; INDIANS, AMERICAN; MAYANS; MIXTEC INDIANS; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); FOREIGN LABOR FARM LABOR (96%); MIGRANT WORKERS (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); REFUGEES (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



452 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: New Utility Merger to Form Regional Giant

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
The Public Service Company of Colorado and the Southwestern Public Service Company said yesterday that they had agreed to merge, creating an electric-utility company that would cover an area stretching from Texas to Wyoming.
The deal, to be carried out as a stock swap, would create a holding company with a market capitalization of $3.2 billion. It is the latest in a round of proposed mergers and takeovers to sweep the power industry as utilities brace for deregulated markets and the intensified competition this will bring. 
 The utilities are also being driven to become more flexible and efficient as their big industrial customers are increasingly able to generate their own power at lower cost or to go outside their local areas to buy electricity from cheaper suppliers.
Yesterday's agreement would create a utility company with 2.4 million electric and natural-gas customers in six states. The deal was approved by the boards of both companies in separate meetings on Tuesday.
"The combination will result in one of the premier low-cost energy providers of the future," said Bill D. Helton, chairman and chief executive of Southwestern. Under the agreement, Mr. Helton, 56, will become chairman and chief executive on the merger's completion, expected early in 1997.
Although Public Service of Colorado shareholders will own 61.9 percent of the new holding company, Craig M. Lucas, an analyst for Oppenheimer & Company, said the transaction "is a true merger, relative to where both companies' stocks were trading and to the relative earning power of the companies."
Shares of Public Service of Colorado closed yesterday at $32.375 on the New York Stock Exchange, up 87.5 cents. Southwestern closed at $30.375, up $1.
The companies expect to save about $770 million in the first 10 years of the merger -- including $370 million from an 8 percent reduction in their work forces, which will result in the elimination of as many as 600 jobs, and $150 million from fuel savings.
The Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Company, which predicted that the merger "would further strengthen each company's competitive profile," said it expected a portion of the savings to be passed along to rate payers.
The as-yet unnamed holding company will be based in Denver. Public Service of Colorado will maintain its headquarters in Denver, while Southwestern will remain based in Amarillo, Tex.
Eight Colorado Public Service directors will sit on the holding company's board, as will six from Southwest. The deal must be approved by shareholders of both companies and by various regulatory authorities.
In other big mergers of utilities, the Peco Energy Company, parent of the Philadelphia Electric Company, last week offered $3.8 billion, or $24 a share in stock, in a hostile bid for PP&L Resources Inc,. the parent of the Pennsylvania Power and Light Company. And the Union Electric Company of St. Louis and Cipsico Inc., a power company in central Illinois, agreed to merge in a stock deal valued at $1.2 billion. They predicted $570 million in savings over the next 10 years.
"The consolidation of the industry is the result of many electric utilities experiencing margin erosion among their major industrial customers," Mr. Lucas of Oppenheimer said. "The reason for that is that 10 years ago, it cost industrial customers about 8.5 cents a kilowatt to generate their own power; today that's down to about 3.5 cents, mostly because gasoline and interest rates have since fallen to historic lows."
As a result, utilities are lowering rates for industrial customers, who would otherwise generate their own power or go outside their areas to buy electricity outside their local areas.
"But this is putting utilities in the position of having to raise residential rates to make up for the lost revenue," Mr. Lucas said, "or to cut costs by work-force reductions or trimming capital budgets. Mergers are one way to accomplish reductions through synergies that could not be achieved by each company separately." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PPL (NYSE) (61%); EXC (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (93%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (63%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (63%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (63%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (63%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (61%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (60%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (75%); AMARILLO, TX, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC SERVICE CO OF COLORADO; SOUTHWESTERN PUBLIC SERVICE CO PUBLIC SERVICE CO OF COLORADO (93%); SOUTHWESTERN PUBLIC SERVICE CO (91%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (66%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (63%); PPL CORP (61%); PECO ENERGY CO (61%); UNION ELECTRIC CO (60%); EXELON CORP (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC SERVICE CO OF COLORADO; SOUTHWESTERN PUBLIC SERVICE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLORADO, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (75%); AMARILLO, TX, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS UTILITIES INDUSTRY (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); MERGERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); NATURAL GAS (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (66%); CREDIT BUREAUS (64%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN BILL D HELTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



453 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: The School Cuts Get Painful

 BODY:
The State Education Department looks like a nitpicker in rejecting the New York City Board of Education's plan to close its budget gap by allowing shorter elementary school days. State officials acknowledge that city schools would still be providing more than the minimum number of hours of instruction required per week. But they complain that, on one or two days a week, many schools might fall below the state's minimum daily requirement for hours of classroom instruction.
That seems like mindless quibbling. If the best way out of the budget crisis is to reduce the hours of instruction, surely it makes little difference if the reduction is concentrated on one or two days or spread out in lesser amounts over the entire week. Indeed, it might be far more efficient, economically and educationally, to concentrate the reductions. 
 But state officials have pointed to a far more important issue, namely whether it makes sense to reduce classroom instruction at all. As James A. Kadamus, the state's acting deputy commissioner for elementary education, noted in rejecting New York's plan, the children in New York's schools, faced with rising standards and low-performing schools, "need more quality schooling, not less." Before cutting into instruction time, the board needs to look even harder for administrative savings and take its first searching look at how to wring more productivity savings from the teachers.
The city's school board faces a $750 million cut for the current fiscal year, $500 million of which has been covered through projected savings, new revenues and other means. Schools Chancellor Ramon Cortines estimated that $105 million of the remaining $250 million gap would be absorbed by the high schools and the 32 local districts, responsible for elementary and junior high schools. Most of the rest would be absorbed by the central bureaucracy.
The districts were given options that included allowing an increase in first, second and third grade class sizes from 25 to 27 students and shortening elementary school hours from 27.5 to 26 per week. Such shortening would virtually eliminate so-called cluster classes held at the end of the day, usually in subjects like art, music and physical education. The proposal was to cut two 45-minute periods on two days or an hour and a half on one day.
That would keep the schools above the state's minimum requirement of 25 hours of instruction a week. But on individual days, it would push schools below the state's five-hour daily instructional requirement. In rejecting immediate approval for the change, Mr. Kadamus questioned the effect on curriculum and on students who attend schools that have been cited for low performance.
The board has already made heavy cuts in its central administrative staff, and Mr. Cortines insists that he would not allow any local district to shorten the school day unless it had first cut back its own administrative staff by 30 percent. That begs the question of whether even heavier administrative cuts would be preferable to reducing instruction. But eliminating the entire central headquarters staff and all the district offices would only save about $165 million, not enough to cover the $250 million gap.
Both the Mayor and the board should try harder to secure concessions from teachers. The board estimates that suspending teacher sabbaticals and preparation periods would produce about the same savings as increasing class sizes and shortening school days combined. Less palatable options include cutting kindergarten from an all-day to a half-day program or reducing support services like counseling troubled students or tracking down potential dropouts.
There are no good alternatives here. But in a crisis, every effort should be made to spare classroom instruction and no group should be exempt from having to share the pain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) NEW YORK CITY BOARD (78%); STATE EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) NEW YORK CITY BOARD (78%); STATE EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDITORIALS; SCHEDULES AND TIMETABLES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; PRODUCTIVITY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING SCHOOL BOARDS (92%); BUDGETS (91%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); CURRICULA (78%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); 

PERSON: RAMON CORTINES (59%); JAMES A KADAMUS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



454 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Tears in High Places

 BODY:
Especially under Republicans, the White House has long been thought to be a preserve of machismo and unfeeling resolve. Now Marlin Fitzwater reminds us what a lachrymose place it was before President Clinton came along. Three chiefs of staff under Presidents Reagan and Bush wept upon being forced to resign, the former Presidential spokesman reports in his new book. Then there was the moment that Mr. Fitzwater, Mr. Bush and James A. Baker 3d bade farewell to the Gipper in 1989. All three cried. "We just couldn't help it," Mr. Fitzwater says. "Our lives had been so intertwined with Ronald Reagan's."
It is surprising that Mr. Fitzwater, a stolid man who genuinely admired both his bosses, would write a weep-and-tell memoir. Nevertheless, as the next Presidential campaign heats up, it is useful to be reminded that people in high places share the same emotions and frailties as the rest of us. 
 Mr. Fitzwater recounts in "Call the Briefing!" that under Mr. Bush, infighting reached new heights and chiefs of staff came and went like Henry VIII's wives. Samuel Skinner held up especially poorly upon hearing the news of his imminent departure. "Tears were welling up in his eyes, his face was growing red," Mr. Fitzwater writes. "He was stunned."
Elsewhere, Mr. Fitzwater describes a volatile argument between Mr. Baker and Jack Kemp, the Housing Secretary, over foreign policy that ended up with the Secretary of State shouting an extremely rude epithet and stalking away. The former Buffalo Bills quarterback leaped past couches and end tables to chase Mr. Baker down a hallway outside the Oval Office, where they had to be pulled apart by Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser.
Mr. Bush himself was a stoic man, Mr. Fitzwater reminds us, except for his frantic schedule and athletic pursuits. It turned out that the President's active life style, often mocked as hyperthyroid, was indeed the result of an overactive thyroid gland. Mr. Fitzwater is convinced that the drug treatments for this disorder helped calm the President down but also robbed him of the energy and drive that he needed in his re-election campaign.
The value of Mr. Fitzwater's book, however, goes beyond its glimpses of powerful egos bruised and brought low. President Bush's defeat was hardly caused by thyroid medicine or even backbiting on the White House team. "Call the Briefing!" acknowledges the larger problem without emphasizing it -- it was the economy, stupid. In 1991, Mr. Fitzwater recalls, he wrote a note to himself saying: "The President is lost about what to do regarding the economy. . . . He doesn't look at me much in these meetings because he knows I can see the trouble in his eyes. Unfortunately, everyone sees it."
Everything, we learn again, hinges on the determination and vision of the President himself. Mr. Fitzwater has written an extremely respectful and affectionate account of a President with admirable, personable qualities struggling to figure out what to do about the problem that voters cared about most. It is a cautionary tale as voters approach the next election campaign, without tears.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: CALL THE BRIEFING! (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (72%); LITERATURE (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (66%); ATHLETES (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (64%); SPORTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE; FITZWATER, MARLIN RONALD REAGAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



455 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Slips Despite Reduction In Interest Rates by Bundesbank

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar slipped yesterday, weakening after a cut in German interest rates failed to produce a rally in the dollar against the mark and traders took profits.
In its regular weekly money market operations yesterday, the Bundesbank cut its 14-day securities repurchase agreement rate, known as the repo rate, to 4.39 percent from 4.45 percent. The cut was slightly larger than the market had expected. 
 While the rate cut underpinned expectations that the central bank would agree to lower other lending rates at its meeting today, the dollar failed to react strongly and move out of the range it has recently held, compelling traders to sell some dollar holdings.
"The failure to push the dollar through the high end of the range brought in some profit-taking," said Bruce Giammattei, vice president of foreign exchange at Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh.
The dollar rose early in the week in anticipation that the Bundesbank would cut its repo rate. Still, trading was thin yesterday as few participants wanted to make big moves ahead of the Bundesbank's meeting today.
In early trading before the cut in repo rates, the dollar rose as high as 1.4924 marks. In New York, the dollar settled at 1.4833 marks, down from 1.4870 marks on Tuesday.
The dollar fell to 96.61 yen in late New York dealings from 96.90 late Tuesday.
With the Bundesbank's policy-setting council meeting today, speculation is high on whether bankers will also cut the Lombard and discount rates, two other key interest rates. Lower German interest rates help the dollar because they make mark-denominated investments, and the mark, less attractive.
Many traders say that weak economic reports this week will motivate council members to chop rates to fight inflation and stimulate growth. The Bundesbank said yesterday that M-3, the broadest measure of the money supply and a leading indicator of future inflation, had shrunk in July far below the central bank's target.
The repo rate cut was interpreted by some as a precursor of further rate cuts, traders said.
"It tells us there's more in the pipeline," said Bob Near, vice president at the Bank of New York.
But other traders said the Germans could postpone more rate cuts until late September.
"The market feels there's about a 50-50 chance that they'll cut," Mr. Giammattei of Mellon Bank said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); 

PERSON: BRUCE GIAMMATTEI (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



456 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Don't Take Iraq's Word for It

 BODY:
Iraq has turned over to United Nations inspectors chilling new information about its germ warfare program that it had concealed for years. Its transparent motive was to pre-empt the promised disclosures of its former arms czar, Gen. Hussein Kamel, who defected to Jordan earlier this month.
The new documents, which the U.N. will now evaluate for authenticity, show that Iraq not only possessed biological agents during the Persian Gulf war, but had bombs and Scud missiles armed with them. At the time Washington feared Iraq might use chemical weapons and was developing nuclear bombs, but had little idea Baghdad's most advanced weapons of mass destruction were biological. The weapons were not used, perhaps for fear of a withering American retaliation. 
 The long concealment of this information and the Machiavellian reasons behind its present disclosure invite troubling new questions about what else Baghdad may be hiding. Is this at last the whole truth, or another self-serving selective glimpse?
The answer to that question will determine the future of U.N. economic sanctions, which now prevent Iraq from exporting its products, chiefly oil.
According to the American-drafted resolution that ended the gulf war, Iraq is entitled to resume exports as soon as the U.N. verifies that its stocks of biological, chemical and nuclear weapons materials have been located and destroyed and a long-term monitoring system to prevent future production has been put in place.
France, Russia and China have long argued that sanctions should be lifted once the U.N. certifies that Iraq is in compliance with the arms control requirements. The United States, citing Baghdad's long record of untrustworthiness, implies that the arms control requirements cannot be satisfied as long as Mr. Hussein remains in power.
The American position remains unreasonable, and exceeds the terms Washington accepted when the war ended, but it is now clear that compliance with the arms control provisions of the cease-fire resolution must be proved beyond any doubt before sanctions are removed. Iraq has forfeited so much credibility with its deceptions that the U.N. commission charged with monitoring compliance now has no choice but to verify everything independently.
Although Iraq has obviously been playing games with the inspection commission all along, the information it has chosen to supply is quite valuable. Iraqi disclosures have allowed inspectors to piece together the underlying logic of Baghdad's weapons programs, trace materials back to suppliers and pursue other independent means of verification that exposed gaps in what Iraq was reporting. The inspectors then came back with specific questions that produced additional Iraqi disclosures.
Unfortunately, Iraq seems more interested in playing tactical games aimed at minimizing the political damage General Kamel can inflict than in cooperating with the U.N. A consistent policy of cooperation could speed the inspectors' work and offer the fastest relief from sanctions. But whether Saddam Hussein's regime is capable of such straightforward behavior remains highly doubtful. Its record to date offers little encouragement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GULF STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (75%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); GULF STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (75%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; EDITORIALS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



457 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Securities Prices Down for 2d Straight Day

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities sagged for a second consecutive session yesterday, dragged down by a disappointing five-year note auction.
The price of the 30-year bond fell 9/32 , to 9919/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 6.91 percent from 6.89 percent on Tuesday. 
 Traders said dealers had prepared for the five-year auction late Tuesday after the results of the two-year note auction were known and the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged.
Dealers typically sell to cause prices of notes and bonds to decline before an auction as a way to generate investor interest. In when-issued trading ahead of the auction yesterday, the yield on the five-year note was at 6.36 percent, up a basis point from Tuesday's close, suggesting that there was some interest. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The when-issued yield on the five-year notes had ranged between 6.27 percent and 6.40 percent from the start of trading last week.
At the auction, the notes sold at a high yield of 6.370 percent, the highest since 6.815 percent in April. Some called the outcome a little disappointing since analysts had anticipated a 6.355 percent yield.
"A lot of paper was expected to go to retail accounts, but that appetite just wasn't there." said Joseph V. Battipaglia, managing director of Sterling Advisers, a money management firm.
But the lack of retail interest, he noted, could probably be attributed to light summer volume, which is why dealers were not very worried.
With the dollar down in foreign exchange trading yesterday, bonds were put under pressure. A weaker dollar makes dollar-denominated investments like Treasury securities that much less attractive to foreign investors.
And there are still questions about the strength of foreign participation in the Treasury auctions.
"Anyone thinking that the Japanese were going to come in droves was greatly mistaken," Mr. Battipaglia of Sterling Advisers said. "The trend over the last several years has seen dwindling participation by Japan institutions, insurance companies in particular. The auctions have been getting done without their participation."
The market turns its attention to July durable goods data today and existing home sales tomorrow. If there are signs of strength in the coming economic numbers bond prices will be vulnerable.
Next week's batch of new economic reports will have more impact, since they represent the most current data. The reports include the August employment report, the National Association of Purchasing Management survey and automobile and truck sales.
Elsewhere in the credit markets, there was no scarcity of supply, only a scarcity of money from cash-strapped funds, as Texas came to market with the year's largest municipal debt offering of $2.4 billion in tax and revenue notes.
The competitive deal was awarded to several securities firms with a coupon of 4.75 percent at various prices to yield from between 4.05 percent to about 4.08 percent. The issue carried the highest short-term credit rating of MIG-1 by Moody's Investors Service and SP-1+ by Standard & Poor's.
In the corporate market, the AT&T Corporation was in the market to sell $1 billion of asset-backed securities, backed by payments on its Universal credit card.
John H. Nash, a vice president at MCM/CorporateWatch, a news and analysis service tracking new corporate issues, said "the pricing was the tightest to date for a floating-rate global or domestic credit card issue."
The issue "saw exceptional demand from domestic and European accounts," he said.
Underwriters led by Merrill Lynch priced the largest portion of the sale, $800 million of securities with an expected life of three-years at eight basis points above the three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor. Libor is what international banks charge each other for loans, and yesterday it was about 5.906 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new five-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
High Yield . . . 6.370%
Low Yield . . . 6.320%
Median Yield . . . 6.344%
Accepted at low price . . . 44%
Total applied for . . . $27,652,559
Accepted . . . $11,502,647
Noncompetitive . . . $322,000
Interest set at . . . 6.25%
 
The five-year notes mature on Aug. 31, 2000.
 
 
Graphs: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since May. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.); "5-Year Treasury Notes" tracks high yields at monthly auctions, in percent, from March 1994 through August 1995. (Source: Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (92%); PRICES OF TREASURY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT TREASURY DEPARTMENT (92%); PRICES OF TREASURY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; AUCTIONS TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); BONDS (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); DEBT FINANCING (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INTEREST RATES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); REAL ESTATE (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); EXISTING HOME SALES (72%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



458 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Subway Brawl Inflames Issue of G.I.'s in Korea

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Aug. 19

 BODY:
It all began when an American soldier put his hand on a Korean woman's rump.
The version that has captured the local imagination is that a group of drunken American soldiers were rampaging through the subway, molesting Korean women, and that the soldiers then attacked good citizens who dared protest the errant hand. 
 That episode, which is expected to lead to the public trial soon of four Americans, has added to an outcry in South Korea against what many Koreans perceive as a wave of violence by American soldiers, and a system that is tilted to allow them to get away with it.
"We strongly condemn U.S. military personnel who do not repent and who continue to commit outrageous criminal offenses," declared a group that calls itself the "headquarters to bring an end to crimes by U.S. military stationed in Korea."
The American understanding of events starts with a fact that the Koreans tend to leave out: The American soldier and the Korean woman whose behind he patted were in fact a married couple.
The Americans say the problems arose when some angry young Koreans on the subway accused the American of sexually harassing the Korean woman. When the Korean woman explained that she was the American's wife, the Korean men allegedly spat at her and slapped her -- leading the woman's husband to punch the man who slapped her.
In any case, the result that evening in May was a huge brawl in the subway. It has reverberated through the country and underscored the delicacy of the mission of the 37,000 American military personnel in bases in South Korea.
South Korea is an intensely nationalist country. Some Korean and American officials alike worry that public irritation about crimes committed by American troops could undermine the public support for the American bases in South Korea.
"The Korean public is led to believe that these things are getting out of hand, and it's affecting our welcome here," said the American Ambassador in Seoul, James T. Laney. "It's a cause for great concern."
Mr. Laney says the problem is not that American soldiers are committing more crimes, but that an irresponsible Korean press is portraying them in a particularly lurid way to an inflamed public.
Many Koreans say that whether or not crime is getting worse, the problem is that American soldiers get special treatment when they commit crimes.
"The problem is not in the crime itself, but in the criminal process," said Kwon Suk Hun, a 23-year-old student council officer at Yonsei University, traditionally a hotbed of social protest. "This process reflects the imperialist characteristics of the U.S. Government."
The United States and South Korea agreed this summer to review the Status of Forces Agreement, known as SOFA, which governs such issues as the treatment of American soldiers charged with committing crimes in Korea. Korean courts have jurisdiction, although soldiers may also face court-martial and other penalties under American law.
"The Korean public's perception is that the SOFA is not meeting with a sense of justice," said Yim Sung Joon, director general of the American affairs bureau in the Foreign Ministry. Mr. Yim said the most important issue is to revise the agreement so arrested American soldiers may be held in Korean custody while awaiting trial.
Now they are released to the American military, although they are made available to the Korean authorities for questioning.
If convicted of crimes, American soldiers are jailed in a special wing of a Korean prison, where eight are now serving sentences. If they are sentenced to death by a Korean court, the Americans could be executed, although this has not happened and none is on death row now.
A measure of the public sensitivity in South Korea is that one of the best-known Americans in the country is Kenneth Markle 3d, an Army private convicted of murdering a Korean prostitute in 1992. The case led to huge demonstrations and anti-American protests, as well as calls for the death penalty for Private Markle, but in the end he was sentenced to a 15-year term, which he is serving.
While cases like the subway incident are seen by Koreans as evidence of the need for protection from rampaging Americans, to Americans they show that they need protection from a skewed local judicial system. After the subway brawl, no Koreans were indicted, but four Americans were.
These kinds of problems, of course, are neither new nor confined to South Korea. They were a factor in the closing of American military bases in the Philippines in 1992.
But in South Korea, the upshot is that with the atmosphere strained because of protests over crime by American soldiers, each side is now demanding more of the other. Lee Jang Hee, one of the leaders of a group that has gathered more than 40,000 signatures seeking to revise the Status of Forces Agreement, says American tax privileges in Korea should be revoked.
The United States, on the other hand, wants South Korea to pick up more of the tab for stationing troops in South Korea. Americans see little reason why they should pay more Korean taxes when they are already helping defend South Korea -- and paying for the privilege.
The United States now pays not only all the dollar costs of maintaining troops in Korea, like soldiers' pay, but also two-thirds of the costs incurred in local currency, like payments to support staff. The Seoul Government is willing to increase its payments, amounting to a one-third share, only by the amount of inflation. But the United States argues that South Korea's extraordinary economic growth means that Seoul can now pay more of its own way.
Japan, in contrast, pays all the costs incurred in local currency for maintaining United States forces stationed in Japan.
Could accusations about criminal behavior and demands for changes in the Status of Forces Agreement lead the United States to decide that it is not worth the bother and expense of defending South Korea?
The Clinton Administration says that despite occasional difficulties, the troops in South Korea are as essential now as they ever were.
Mr. Yim also said a withdrawal was unlikely.
"Keeping troops on the Korean peninsula is in U.S. interests," he added, a bit nervously. "So I'm sure the U.S. won't bring them home."

GRAPHIC: Photo: American soldiers stroll a back alley of Seoul's Itaewon district, a bar, shopping and entertainment area frequented by soldiers and tourists. (Yuk Sang Soo)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SUBWAYS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MILITARY PERSONNEL ARMED FORCES (92%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); MILITARY OFFENSES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); MARRIAGE (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



459 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: In Congressman's District, Conviction Evokes Regret

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 23

 BODY:
This is a South Side neighborhood as jagged as broken glass, where salvation is offered in darkened taverns and storefront churches, but scarcely anywhere else.
And yet, many people here found hope in the example of Mel Reynolds, a homeboy who achieved political stardom. Here was a Rhodes Scholar who had known the sting of the hot sun in Mississippi cotton fields, who had known the sting of poverty in Chicago public housing. 
 Now Mr. Reynolds, 43, stands convicted of sexual misconduct and obstruction of justice. On the crumbling sidewalks along South Halsted Street, where police sirens scream past every few minutes, people greeted his downfall with a sense of mourning.
"It is so disappointing," said a 26-year-old unemployed man, Isaac Williams, who was coming out of a grocery after applying for a job. "Mel's been through what we've been through. He was supposed to be there for us. But he threw it away."
While some people said they felt sorry for the Congressman, others reacted with anger toward Mr. Reynolds, who was convicted of having sex with a 16-year-old.
"Mel Reynolds should have been a father figure to these kids living down here," said Yolanda Dixson, as she walked along a sidewalk with her young children. "A 16-year-old isn't old enough to have sex with another 16-year-old, let alone a man in his 40's."
She added: "He let us down. And I think he ought to go to jail for it. With all his degrees, he should have been smarter than that. I know if somebody did that with a 16-year-old daughter of mine, I'd kill him. Doesn't Mel Reynolds know that's what's wrong today -- all these teen-agers having sex and having babies? We expected better from him."
Mr. Reynolds, who faces a minimum of four years in prison, has not announced whether he will step down from Congress. But a friend, Nate Clay, a Chicago journalist, said Mr. Reynolds told him this morning that he did intend to leave his seat.
The conviction has set off jostling among those interested in the seat. Among those said to be weighing a bid is Jesse Jackson Jr., the son of the former Presidential contender.
But in the Second Congressional District, which stretches from the South Side of the city into the southern suburbs, the talk mostly centered on the terrible fall from grace for a man who seemed to have so much potential.
"He had everything going for him -- everything," said Robert Ray, a 64-year-old retired concrete laborer. "We were all so proud of him."
Even now, Mr. Ray said he was not sure of the Congressman's guilt. He said he could not help but wonder whether the Cook County State's Attorney, Jack O'Malley, who is a Republican, was after a political prize in taking down a high-profile Democrat, and a black man.
For his part, Mr. O'Malley said that Mr. Reynolds had not been targeted but that his accuser had come to the authorities with damning charges and the police and State's Attorney's office had an obligation to investigate. "I never saw the political upside to this case," he added.
When Mr. Reynolds won office in 1992, he was cheered by voters well beyond this district for defeating Gus Savage, a politician who was given to anti-Semitic diatribes and generally anti-white speeches.
Mr. Reynolds was seen as a refreshing change in Chicago politics, a man who could appeal to both races. During the election, Mr. Savage attacked him for receiving "pro-Israeli money," among other things.
Mr. Clay said Mr. Reynolds was "philosophic" about the verdict, "even talking about life after prison." Mr. Clay said he hoped people would not forget the achievements of Mr. Reynolds's career in office. He kept his campaign headquarters open after the 1990 primary, using it for raising money for food programs, securing college scholarships and holding Halloween parties for children. He used his own money to travel to Somalia, where he supervised a famine relief effort.
He was born in Mound Bayou, Miss., where he picked cotton with his grandmother. He moved to Chicago at age 8 or 9, and lived in a public housing project. He graduated from the University of Illinois, and won a Rhodes scholarship to study at Oxford University. He also studied at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.
Some in the Second District took aim at Mr. Reynolds's accuser, Beverly Heard, who is now 19.
"If it really happened, why didn't she come forward then, when she was 16?" said Doris Stewart, a security guard. "And even if it did, well, when you're 16, you're old enough to know what you're doing."
Mr. Williams, the unemployed man, said he had often looked to Mr. Reynolds for inspiration.
"I always figured that he was really strong, since he was able to overcome all of this," Mr. Williams said, casting his arms toward the rough neighborhood.
But he said he had lost all respect for Mr. Reynolds.
"A lot of older guys have fallen for young girls, so I guess it's not surprising that he could be tempted," said Mr. Williams, whose broken eyeglasses had been patched together with white tape.
"But you've just got to pass it up, not give in to temptation. There's plenty of us guys struggling around here to get by, and we don't give in. So I think, with all he's got going for him, all the money and big house and nice wife, he should have been able to be a little stronger."
George McRae, a substitute teacher, said he could not accept the charges against Mr. Reynolds, at first. "We believed in this guy," Mr. McRae said. "But then you started watching the trial, and it was becoming obvious that he was guilty.
"It's such a sad thing, you know," Mr. McRae added. "Who knows where Mel could have gone? Now, he's not going anywhere but to jail."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yolanda Dixson is one constituent who was disappointed in Representative Mel Reynolds after his conviction this week. "Mel Reynolds should have been a father figure to these kids living down here," she said yesterday as she walked with her children, Sidney and Brieanna. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times)
 
Map of Chicago showing area on the 2d Congressional District.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: SEX CRIMES; BLACKS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH SEX OFFENSES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CHILDREN (87%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); MEN (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); MISCONDUCT (56%); 

PERSON: REYNOLDS, MEL (REPR); HEARD, BEVERLY JESSE L JACKSON JR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



460 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Bid to Topple Iraqi Falters, Lacking Support in Arab World

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 23

 BODY:
Two weeks after the defection of two top aides of President Saddam Hussein, Washington's hope of seizing the opportunity to weaken or topple the Iraqi Government is rapidly receding.
For one thing, Iraqi and Arab officials say, President Hussein has moved ruthlessly to consolidate his remaining power, arresting hundreds and shuffling his personal security apparatus. 
 But more important, the United States has little prospect of mustering the kind of anti-Hussein consensus in the Arab world that existed during the 1991 Persian Gulf war.
For their own reasons, the other countries in the region have been reluctant to join in the new American effort to move from a policy of simply containing Iraq to one of outright strangulation. For example, Saudi Arabia's economic interest in keeping Iraqi oil off the world market would suffer if President Hussein was ousted and United Nations sanctions against Iraq lifted.
Since the defections, the United States has significantly increased pressure against the Iraqi Government. The campaign includes the stepping up of military maneuvers and the sending of an American diplomatic delegation to try to persuade Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Kuwait to help rein in a country that is seen by Washington as a threat to regional stability.
By all accounts in the Middle East, the American diplomatic mission has failed. Underscoring the doubts about Washington's goal, King Hussein of Jordan said in a nationally televised speech tonight that he would not contemplate closing his country's borders with Iraq.
"As far as closing the borders with Iraq, this is unthinkable," the King said, although he criticized what he described as unwise policies of the Iraqi leadership. He said a border closing would shut off essential supplies of food and medicine to the Iraqi people.
In the meantime in Iraq, opposition figures and some members of the Government say, President Hussein has moved swiftly to reorganize the Government, shifting some power from his tightly knit family circle to old figures of the governing Baath party.
"Saddam used to say, 'Don't blame me if I ally myself with the family against the party, because the party betrays me,' " said an Iraqi still in the service of President Hussein. "Now, it is the family that is conspiring against him. We will see how far the pendulum will swing back."
Hundreds of people have been arrested since the escape on Aug. 8 of Lieut. Gen. Hussein Kamel, said his nephew Ezzedine Mohammed Hassan al-Majid, a commander in the presidential security detail who was among the 22 family members and aides who fled from Baghdad to Amman, Jordan.
"Anybody who ever shook hands with Hussein Kamel has been arrested," Mr. Majid said in a telephone interview from Amman. "They are cutting off all the branches of the tree connected to him, in the family and in the Government".
Virtually all opponents and supporters of President Hussein agree that much depends on how he will handle his son Uday, who has become the most hated person in Iraq but who continues to enjoy his father's support.
Considerable doubts about the prospects for success of the United States strategy have been expressed in interviews in the last week with Iraqi dissidents, officials and Arab experts on Iraq in Amman, London, Vienna and Cairo.
Beyond Mr. Hussein's internal measures, the doubts stem from the lukewarm reaction in much of the Arab world, as well as in Turkey and Iran, to the American campaign and from the Washington's failure to rally the broad coalition that existed in the gulf war.
There is also an increasing reluctance among Arabs and Muslims to impose more sanctions on millions of Iraqis who are already suffering under United Nations sanctions as a result of Iraq's invasion of Kuwait in 1990.
Yet despite the potential threat from the defectors, experts on Iraq say they do not believe that dissidents outside the country have much influence.
After five years in oppositon from abroad, the experts say, half a dozen groups have yet to agree on a common program of action despite receiving millions of dollars in financing from the United States.
Far from being considered an ally, General Kamel is viewed by much of the Iraqi opposition as a war criminal because he took part in military operations to suppress the Kurds in the north in the late 1980's and directed violent campaigns of suppression against the Shiites in the south in 1991, after the gulf war.
"This American escalation needs a catalyst," said Ghassan al-Attia, editor of the London-based Iraqi File, an authoritative monthly bulletin that meticulously monitors Iraq's economy and politics. "Who will take part in it? Who will actually overthrow Saddam? Every moment that goes by is in his interest. This a police state, a mafia. The more it has time to rally, the more resistant it becomes."
Echoing a view widely shared around the Arab world, Mr. Attia said Jordan had little incentive for being a key player in the American strategy, among other reasons because the United States was seen as failing to secure the minimum financial help for the Jordanians in getting debt relief and in reviving economic activities that were severely set back with the defeat of Iraq.
Until 1991, Iraq ranked as Jordan's most lucrative market. But even after Baghdad's defeat, the economic ties lingered, particularly as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and other gulf countries severed their ties to Jordan to protest its close ties to Iraq.
Over the past week, the Jordanian Prime Minister, Zeid Bin Shaker, made that point repeatedly, emphasizing Jordan's unwillingness to cut off all trade and commercial ties with Iraq as the United States has requested of Amman.
Among other things, Iraq sells some 75,000 barrels of oil a day to Jordan at much reduced prices in repayment for debts in an arrangment authorized by the United Nations. Jordanian merchants are owed close to a billion dollars in unpaid bills from Iraq, payments they could have to forsake if commercial ties were severed.
There is also some question over how fervently a fall of the Iraqi Government is desired in Saudi Arabia. A senior Saudi official said in a lengthy conversation today that any such change would mean that Iraq could start to sell oil, a situation that would immediately hurt Saudi Arabia, the world's largest oil exporter, by lowering world prices.
In the absence of Iraq's exports of three million barrels a day since 1991 because of United Nations sanctions, Saudi Arabia has raised its output to eight million barrels a day, taking Iraq's share of the world oil market and securing higher revenues.
"Nobody is interested right now in any serious change in Iraq," the senior Saudi official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. "For us the status quo is best. For one thing, we cannot afford it. It means we will have to sell less oil or sell it at lower prices. For another, there is no alternative to Saddam except chaos on our borders, with Iranians, Turks and others playing a role that leads to the unknown."
In Turkey, there is a fear that if the Iraqi Government collapsed, Kurds in the northern Iraq would join with those fighting Turkey to create even more turmoil for a Turkish Government that has been fighting against Kurdish separatists for decades.
For Arab countries in general, the wariness in joining the American effort is rooted in the weight of public opinion that sees the United States as throwing its weight around the Middle East to the detriment of Arab interests.
This skepticism in the Arab world is is based on Washington's credibility, said Jordanian, Egyptian and Saudi officials as well as Iraqi opposition figures. One question concerns the underlying message from the United States in its assertive military actions in the region.
"Are they putting the word out to some officers inside to move in on the regime with a promise, this time, to protect them?" asked a prominent independent opponent of the regime. "Or are they really accepting General Hussein Kamel's assertion that Iraq was planning to invade Kuwait and Saudi Arabia and therefore are moving forces to the region?"
Kamran Qarahdaghi, a prominent Kurdish writer in London who is a fierce opponent of President Hussein's Government, wrote today in the Arabic daily Al Hayat: "Long experience in dealing with the Iraqi regime shows that it can be most dangerous and devious when it is weak. These experiences also show that the other side makes its biggest error when it hesitates to finish the regime off."
Mr. Qarahdaghi was apparently referring to the retreat from supporting Kurds and Shiites who rose in revolt in March 1991 after the gulf war but were abandoned by the allied forces.
On Tuesday, after saying there were indications of hostile Iraqi troop movements, Defense Secretary William J. Perry told reporters in Washington that "nothing leads us to believe that any invasion is under way or planned."
In fact, most Arab experts now say Iraq's Government is the only force capable of destroying itself -- or of reforming itself to stay in power.
"There is a notion of a sinking ship in Iraq," said Latif Rasheed, a Kurdish representative and vice president of the London-based Iraqi National Congress opposition group. "Just look at who's leaving. These are the very people who are secure themselves, and their families -- people who are part of the ruling elite, and they are leaving."
But Mr. Rasheed added that with a Government headed by President Hussein, there is no telling. "Sometimes people with cancer can live 10 years," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The United States appears to have made little progress in seeking to weaken or topple President Saddam Hussein of Iraq after some of his top aides defected to Jordan this month. Mr. Hussein, who has since been consolidating his power, met with military officers in Baghdad last week. (AP Photo/Iraq TV)(pg. A14)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); JORDAN (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); AMMAN, JORDAN (90%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; JORDAN; SAUDI ARABIA; IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); JORDAN (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); AMMAN, JORDAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; JORDAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SAUDI ARABIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARRESTS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); FAMILY (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (53%); 

PERSON: KAMEL, HUSSEIN (LT GEN); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M SADDAM HUSSEIN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1995



461 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Durable Goods Orders Fall, Signaling Broad Weakness
Durable goods orders fell 1.7 percent in July, the Commerce Department said, signaling that factories were far from showing the strength that has been popping up in some other parts of the economy. More than 75 percent of July's slide came in the auto industry, but analysts saw some broad weakness, as well. First-time claims for unemployment benefits climbed by 10,000, to 348,000, for the third straight weekly rise.
These reports should dispel any "notions that the U.S. economy can rebound sharply anytime soon," Merrill Lynch said, and should make it more likely that the Federal Reserve will further relax monetary policy. [Page D2.]
 
Bond prices soared on the reports suggesting that the economy was slowing enough to contain inflation, with the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond slipping to 6.81 percent. [D16.]
 
Competitors Seeking Unity On Format for Videodisks
The two rival camps developing competing videodisk systems -- one led by Sony and Philips Electronics and the other led by Toshiba and Time Warner -- are negotiating on a unified format to prevent a costly war over standards.
Disks the size of a musical compact disk can store a two-hour movie and be used by the computer industry to store vast quantities of data, sound and images. [D5.]
 
U.S. Raids 3 More Sweatshops
Three Los Angeles sweatshops were raided by immigration officials, who found 56 illegal immigrants, mostly Thais who were apparently recruited to cut and sew garments destined for American department stores, possibly including J. C. Penney. It was the second time this month that raids had turned up evidence that organized-crime rings were bringing in foreign workers illegally -- and Presidential politics quickly reared its relentless head. [A1.]
 
Microsoft's Virtual Blast
The place was Redmond, Wash. The jokes were by Jay Leno. The Windows 95 theme song was sung by Mick Jagger. It was a beautiful day on Lake Bill. And all you had to do to join Microsoft's party was, of course, log on and head for the Internet. [D4.]
 
Oh, Have a Coke, Bill
Bill Gates wants a Coke. He walks to a Coke machine -- past a screen displaying, naturally, Windows 95 -- but has no money. And so on, in a new TV commercial. Windows promotion continues. [D4.]
 
Technology Stocks Fall
Technology stocks fell -- even Microsoft, on glorious Windows 95 Day, lost $1.75 -- pushing the Nasdaq down 7.26 points. The Dow industrials edged down 4.23 to 4,580.62. [D6.]
 
Matsushita Loss Tied to MCA
Matsushita lost $1.5 billion for the quarter, it said; without the sale of MCA, it would have had a profit. In dollars, it made about $1 billion on MCA. But the dollar fell steeply while the Japanese company owned MCA. [D16.]
 
What Makes Polaroid Run?
Polaroid shares have been hitting new highs, perhaps because investors subscribe to the theory that if a stock's down long enough, it's got nowhere to go but up. But most analysts are skeptical. Market Place. [D6.]
 
Ads, the Old-Fashioned Way
"They make money the old-fashioned way. They earn it." Thus spake John Houseman for Smith Barney from 1979 to 1986, and though Houseman died in 1988, the words in ads created by Ogilvy & Mather New York lived on in people's memory. So McCann-Erickson is reviving them. "It's a timeless message," a McCann executive said. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]
 
Ceridian to Acquire Comdata
Ceridian, which has huge banks of computers, will acquire Comdata Holdings for $900 million in stock. Comdata provides cash and data for gamblers and truckers. [D4.]
 
Boca Will Not Buy Hayes
Boca Research abandoned talks to buy Hayes Microcomputer, once the leading modem maker, now in bankruptcy. [D6.]

GRAPHIC: Table: "YESTERDAY"

Dow industrials	4,580,62	-4.23	30-yr. Treasury yield	6.81%	-0.10	The dollar	96.54 yen	-0.07	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (55%); PHIA (AMS) (55%); PHG (NYSE) (55%); TOS (LSE) (55%); 6502 (TSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (55%); TOSHIBA CORP (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); DURABLE GOODS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BONDS (90%); SWEATSHOPS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (86%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CURRENCIES (74%); US DOLLAR (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); CUT & SEW APPAREL MFG (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); FOREIGN LABOR (69%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); ORGANIZED CRIME (64%); 

PERSON: BILL GATES (69%); JAY LENO (56%); MICK JAGGER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



462 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: Raids Link Organized Crime to Sweatshops

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 24

 BODY:
Raids by Federal officials this week have turned up evidence that Asian organized crime rings may be bringing Asian and other foreign workers into Southern California illegally, specifically to work in sweatshops in the area's booming garment manufacturing industry.
This is the second time in three weeks that such evidence has been turned up, Government officials said. The raids, which were carried out on Wednesday by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, found 56 illegal immigrants at three sweatshops here. Most were Thais who appear to have been recruited to cut and sew garments destined for major American department stores, Labor Department officials said. They also said it appeared that some of the garments might have been shipped to J. C. Penney. 
 In the latest case, the abuses have been swept up in Presidential politics, inciting bitter exchanges today between officials of the Clinton Administration and Gov. Pete Wilson of California -- not over how the abuses can be stopped or their ominous economic significance, but over who is to blame.
Mr. Wilson, who is staking his bid for the 1996 Republican Presidential nomination in part on his battle against illegal immigration, asserted in a letter to Attorney General Janet Reno that the Clinton Administration had "allowed slavery to exist for years in the United States and ignored it."
The Governor called for an investigation of the authorities here who oversee immigration matters, but the Justice Department insisted that it was effectively enforcing the laws.
In the earlier case, 72 Thai womean who immigrated here illegally were found being held in slave-like conditions in a factory in El Monte, in eastern Los Angeles County, some for as long as seven years.
Those raids were conducted by the state authorities after Federal immigration officials, first in the Bush Administration and then in the Clinton Administration, investigated but refused to act.
"There's a sense that this is the tip of the iceberg," said Julie Su, a lawyer at the Asia Pacific American Legal Center who is representing most of the Thai women found in the El Monte raid. "There are indications that these kind of labor law violations are rampant here."
William Slattery, the immigration agency's executive associate commissioner for operations, said there was a pattern of Asian-based crime groups recruiting Asian workers with promises of high wages, and then transporting them illegally to the California sweatshops.
"These Asians are not here by accident," he said. "They are here because of Asian organized crime groups."
The raids carry troubling economic implications. While Southern California has been losing tens of thousands of high-paying jobs in the aerospace industry and with military contractors, the garment industry has been applauded for adding jobs nearly as fast. But now there is concern over what kinds of jobs are being created and how they may be distorting the economy here.
Southern California has surpassed New York City as the nation's largest garment manufacturing center, with about 125,000 workers cutting and sewing apparel. The Labor Department estimates that there are 4,000 legally registered garment contractors in the area, and perhaps 1,000 illegal shops.
The industry has been known as a persistent violator of labor laws for some time. A survey done by the Labor Department 14 months ago found that 79 percent of the shops investigated were failing to pay workers properly for overtime, and 69 percent failed to pay the minimum wage to all their workers.
William C. Buhl, the department's regional administrator here, said today that it appears that some of those jobs are going to illegal immigrants who are being recruited by organized crime rings.
Mr. Buhl said department officials found that the illegal workers caught on Wednesday were apparently owed back wages totaling more than $200,000. He also said the shops might have fabricated time cards in an effort to show compliance with the labor laws.
Authorities on the garment industry said there were several deeper economic problems at work. One is the fact that, with more and more garments produced in places like China, where wages are a fraction of those in the United States, American factories are finding it harder to compete except in small niches. Some manufacturers accuse the retailers of applying too much pressure on them to keep prices down.
"The retailers in the past turned a blind eye to the effect of their insisting always on rock-bottom prices from the manufacturers," said Richard Reinis, a lawyer who represents eight large manufacturers who have initiated a voluntary labor law compliance program.
Some manufacturers maintain that the real problem is lax enforcement of the labor laws, which has created an incentive for sweatshops -- most of them sub-contractors to the larger manufacturers -- to hire illegal workers and pay them less than the minimum wage.
Ms. Su, the lawyer at the Asian Pacific American Legal Center, also points to the labor law enforcement problems, saying the raids will only push these shops farther underground.
The immigration agency said Wednesday's raids were the result of a tip it got from someone who had been emboldened by the publicity over the raid on the El Monte factory. Of the 56 people being held today, 39 are Thai, 9 are Mexican, 6 are Salvadoran, one is Honduran and one is Laotian, the agency said.
No criminal charges have been brought yet, but Federal officials said they were likely soon. In the El Monte case, nine Thai citizens were indicted on criminal charges that they brought the women here and held them illegally.
State officials identified only J. C. Penney as a destination for garments made at the three shops, although they said there were others.
Hank Rusman, a spokesman for J. C. Penney, said that the company had not yet determined whether it had bought garments from the sweatshops, but added that it "will take appropriate action" if that was borne out.
But the discussion today about the problem quickly degenerated into finger-pointing by Federal and state officials eager to score political points.
Virginia Bradshaw, the California Labor Commissioner, complained that Federal officials had acted improperly by not notifying the state of its actions beforehand.
She added: "Was this for political purposes? There doesn't seem to be any other conclusion you can draw."
Ms. Bradshaw suggested that Federal officials had moved swiftly this week after being embarrassed by the Government's lack of action in the El Monte case. Not only had the immigration agency failed to initiate a raid after receiving a tip about the Thai workers several years ago, but it had also withdrawn from the state-run raid at the last minute, saying it could not obtain a warrant.
Mr. Slattery of the immigration agency rejected those charges. He said the agency had acted properly at all times, was not embarrassed by its previous failure to act in the El Monte case and had not deliberately excluded state officials this time.
In his letter to Attorney General Reno, Governor Wilson characterized the Clinton Administration's handling of the case as "unspeakable." But it failed to say that the initial failure to shut down the El Monte sweatshop had taken place under President George Bush, a Republican. The letter sought to make the case that the Justice Department under President Clinton had shown a pattern of indifference to illegal immigration.
"She has seen the letter," Ana Cobian, a spokeswoman for the department, said of Ms. Reno. "She will review his concerns. The United States Attorney's office is prosecuting the nine individuals to the fullest extent of the law."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PENNEY, J C, CO INC ; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) ASIA PACIFIC VENTURES (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (71%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: PENNEY, J C, CO INC ; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (71%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); ; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; ILLEGAL ALIENS; SWEATSHOPS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ORGANIZED CRIME; ELECTION ISSUES ; SMUGGLING; LABOR IMMIGRATION (94%); ORGANIZED CRIME (91%); SWEATSHOPS (91%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); LAWYERS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); SLAVERY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (77%); CUT & SEW APPAREL MFG (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); POLITICS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); REFUGEES (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); RETAILERS (55%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; WILSON, PETE (GOV) ; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



463 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Snubbed at Windows Party? Log On the Internet

BYLINE: By PETER H. LEWIS 

 BODY:
It was a beautiful day in Redmond, Wash., where Microsoft's Windows 95 was officially introduced. In the main tent, Jay Leno's quips with William H. Gates were amusing. Outside, waterfowl paddled on Lake Bill, a pond in the middle of the Microsoft office campus. Commemorative T-shirt sales were brisk. Mick Jagger sounded great on "Start Me Up," the Windows 95 theme song.
And best of all, one did not have to travel to Washington to take part in the festivities. All the events, except the day's sunshine and cool breezes, were re-created on the global Internet almost as soon as they happened, letting thousands of people who wanted to attend the software party -- whether to cheer or jeer -- do so via PC. 
 Using digital cameras, sound digitizers and other tools of the computer age, 45 Microsoft Corporation employees acted as virtual tour guides for the much-anticipated Windows 95 product introduction, capturing the day's sights and sounds and conveying them electronically to millions of residents of cyberspace via the Internet and the new Microsoft Network.
"There was so much interest in this product launch that we knew we couldn't reach everybody," said Brad Chase, the Microsoft executive responsible for marketing Windows 95.
The Microsoft Network, widely known as M.S.N., officially made its debut yesterday, after months of testing by tens of thousands of consumers, and equal months of Justice Department scrutiny.
The network can be reached by clicking a button on the Windows 95 operating system screen, and that had prompted rivals, including America Online, Compuserve and Prodigy, to complain to the Justice Department that Microsoft would have an unfair competitive advantage.
Attorney General Janet Reno, said yesterday at her weekly news conference in Washington that the Government would continue its antitrust investigation of Microsoft, but gave no details. The Justice Department is expected to disclose its stance on the Microsoft Network issue in several weeks; it may do nothing, or it may also demand that Microsoft sever the link between its on-line service and the operating system.
Dataquest Inc., a computer industry market research firm in San Jose, Calif., reported yesterday that it expected Microsoft to sell 30 million copies of Windows 95 by the end of this year. If 10 percent of those customers click on the M.S.N. icon, a percentage Microsoft officials said was a reasonable expectation, M.S.N. would gain in just a few months an audience almost equal to what America Online has amassed over nearly a decade.
But Microsoft officials said earlier this month that they would initially limit enrollment in the Microsoft Network to 500,000 subscribers.
It was difficult to judge the new on-line service yesterday. For many attending the product introduction, the network commonly displayed the message, "This task cannot be completed at this time, please try again later."
Some 250 people were able to enter an electronic auditorium on the Microsoft Network to type questions to Jay Leno, host of the NBC-TV Tonight Show and of the real-world festivities in Redmond.
"Now that I've been paid, in true show-biz tradition, I can blatantly attack Bill Gates on the air," Mr. Leno quipped from the keyboard. But rather than attacking the Microsoft chairman on line, he told his virtual audience that he had personally installed Windows 95 on his home computer.
While the official real-world party ended this evening, the cyberspace party will continue on line until Sept. 14. Directions: Head toward the World Wide Web and turn left at (http://www.windows.microsoft.com). Unlike the Microsoft Network, which restricts attendance to Windows 95 users, the Internet sites will also admit Macintosh, Unix and OS/2 users.
Meanwhile, scores of commentators on competing on-line information services offered their views of Windows 95. There were games, pre-parties, post-parties and group discussions in which people praised, criticized and asked questions about the new software.
Elsewhere on the Web, remote video cameras and electronic sensors situated at strategic locations in Seattle delivered images of weather and traffic conditions. Other areas offered information on entertainment and outdoor activities.
Witnesses at the scene say apparently none of the cameras was aimed high enough to see a radio-controlled balloon hovering near the fringes of the Microsoft campus, displaying a rival's name: America Online.Sports Desk 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); AOL (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (94%); DATAQUEST INC (63%); AOL INC (53%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP JUSTICE DEPARTMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET (COMPUTER NETWORK); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (65%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (63%); VIRTUAL REALITY (53%); 

PERSON: GATES, WILLIAM H; LEWIS, PETER H; LENO, JAY; JAGGER, MICK BILL GATES (90%); JAY LENO (88%); MICK JAGGER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



464 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-12
 
CHINA EXPELS RIGHTS CAMPAIGNER
China expelled the American human rights activist Harry Wu, a day after a Chinese court found him guilty of spying, and he flew to the United States. A1
 
GOOD NEWS FOR U.S.-CHINA TIES
News analysis: China's expulsion of Harry Wu is the first good news in months for the deteriorating relationship between Washington and Beijing, and it opens the way for the First Lady to travel to Beijing. A1
 
VATICAN PICKS DELEGATE TO CHINA
Marking a new diplomatic tack, the Vatican has chosen an American law professor, Mary Ann Glendon, to lead its delegation to a conference on women in Beijing. A3
 
BITTERNESS TEMPERS GAZA BOOM
Fifteen months into self-rule, Gaza has two faces. One shows in an explosion of new building, the other in the fences and heavily guarded border crossings that bar many Palestinians from Israel. A1
 
ZAIRE HALTS OUSTER OF REFUGEES
Thousands of wary refugees returned to their camps after Zaire, following international appeals, ceased deporting refugees back to Rwanda and Burundi. A3
 
GANDHIS MAY RE-ENTER POLITICS
A speech by the widow of Rajiv Gandhi, the former Prime Minister, set off new speculation about the re-entry of the Gandhi family into politics. A4
 
U.N. TROOPS LINGER IN CROATIA
Removing peacekeepers from Croatia has proved difficult for both political and economic reasons. For some nations, peacekeeping is a source of income and honor. A11
 
Iraqi TV broadcasts Jordanian's criticism of Saddam Hussein. A9
 
Tokyo Journal: Breaking with tradition, Japanese sit on chairs. A2
 
National A14-23
 
MYSTERY IN SPY CASE LINGERS
Eighteen months after the arrest of Aldrich Ames, the Central Intelligence Agency still has not determined the damage he did as a mole in Moscow -- and it may never get to the bottom of the case, intelligence officials say. A1
 
MORE SWEATSHOPS RAIDED
For the second time this month, government raids have turned up evidence that organized rings may be bringing foreign workers into California illegally to work in sweatshops. A1
 
OLD-LINE CUBAN MIAMI CHANGES
Cuban exiles who oppose Fidel Castro have long dominated political discourse in Miami. But now many Cubans say that political and demographic changes have weakened the hard-liners' message and allowed other views. A14
 
MORE VACCINATIONS
A survey found that more children are being properly vaccinated than previously thought but that a quarter of the nation's toddlers still do not have adequate protection. A14
 
DEMOCRATS DENOUNCE REYNOLDS
Leading House Democrats repudiated Representative Mel Reynolds of Illinois after his conviction on sexual misconduct charges, and joined a list of legislators who have demanded that he resign. A14
 
WILSON STARTS UP ADS
Gov. Pete Wilson of California sought to burst into the consciousness of Republican primary voters by announcing his campaign's first television commercial. A22
 
An increase in antibiotic-resistant bacteria was reported. A18
 
Metro Digest B1
 
RAPE VICTIM SPEAKS OF ORDEAL
A man whose release from prison ignited a furor after he allegedly went on a killing spree was found guilty of rape, but the moment belonged to his victim, who went before television cameras and declared herself victim no longer. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-27
 
Rolling through New York City in a wheelchair. C1
 
The public library gives itself a birthday party. C1
 
Dancers ratify an agreement on money owed to them. C2
 
For Children C20
 
Theater: "The Food Chain." C1
 
Charles Busch as female lead in "Swingtime Canteen." C2
 
Film: "Beyond Rangoon." C3
 
"Nadja." C5
 
"The Show." C5
 
"Desperado." C6
 
"Lord of Illusions." C6
 
"Dead Funny." C14
 
"Dr. Jekyll and Ms. Hyde." C17
 
"Rosemary's Baby" returns. C18
 
"Blackboard Jungle" again. C12
 
Music: Catherine Wheel. C3
 
Restaurants C26
 
Art: Relief sculpture at the Met. C21
 
Dormant homoerotic imagery. C27
 
Art in Review C15
 
Photography: Dieter Appelt. C18
 
Books: "The First Man," by Albert Camus. C25
 
Television: TV Weekend D18
 
Home Video D18
 
Sports B8-15
 
Baseball: Ken Griffey Jr.'s homer in ninth dooms the Yankees. B9
 
The Mets rally for three runs in the ninth to beat San Diego. B9
 
Basketball: Riley asked Heat for big bucks before quitting. B9
 
Column: Vecsey on Pat Riley B9
 
Hockey: Defenseman Bruce Driver leaves Devils for the Rangers. B9
 
Tennis: Graf gets tough draw in the United States Open. B14
 
Wimbledon cost Jeff Tarango about $150,000. B15
 
Obituaries B6-7
 
Alfred Eisenstadt, photographer. B7
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
The Harry Wu opening.
 
Fuhrman tapes and the L.A.P.D.
 
Philip Taubman: Russian fable.
 
Letters
 
Bob Herbert: Bradley takes stock.
 
Anthony Lewis: Stranger than fiction.
 
Patrick J. Buchanan: Mexico -- who was right?
 
Carolyn Chute: An invading army, in pink and khaki.
 
Chronicle B20
 
Crossword C22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CROATIA (92%); RWANDA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); BURUNDI (79%); JORDAN (79%); JAPAN (73%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CROATIA (92%); RWANDA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); BURUNDI (79%); JORDAN (79%); JAPAN (73%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VERDICTS (89%); SWEATSHOPS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (85%); MISCONDUCT (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); WOMEN (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); RELIGION (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (64%); VACCINES (63%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (63%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (52%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



465 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Vatican Picks U.S. Woman As Delegate to U.N. Parley

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 24

 BODY:
Taking a shrewd new tack in its international diplomacy, the Vatican has chosen an American woman, Mary Ann Glendon, a Harvard law professor, to lead its delegation to the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing next month.
The Vatican, which found itself nearly isolated on issues of abortion, contraception and the rights of women at the United Nations Population Conference in Cairo last September, has apparently decided to put a new face on its international team. 
 For the first time its delegation to a major world conference will be led by a woman, in this case an articulate, respected conservative legal scholar.
The Vatican has only observer status at the United Nations, but its strong voice has often influenced the course of debate on social issues.
Ms. Glendon, one of a handful of female professors at the Harvard Law School, is a prolific writer on comparative family law and social policies and a strong supporter of the Vatican's stand against abortion.
In an interview today, she said she could understand the opposition to the church's ban on artificial methods of contraception. But she questioned the use of family planning programs as a primary way to combat poverty in crowded developing nations, which she describes as "getting rid of poverty by getting rid of poor people."
The appointment of Ms. Glendon, who favors debt reduction and other economic policies embraced by the developing world, is seen as a political move to build bridges to delegations from poorer countries, whose numbers Pope John Paul II has sought to marshal behind the church's conservative views on women and the family.
She is the author of nine books, including "Abortion and Divorce in Western Law," which made her a leading intellectual voice in the American anti-abortion movement and a strong defender of the economic interests of women and children in divorces.
The announcement of Ms. Glendon's appointment is expected to be made in Rome on Friday, a spokeswoman for the National Conference of Catholic Bishops in Washington said. The Vatican will then also make public the names of the other members of a 20-member delegation likely to be dominated by laywomen from around the world.
The Beijing conference and the parallel forum of independent organizations that opens in China next week will be the largest meeting ever convened on the status of women, and many delegations will be seeking firm committments from governments to deal with issues of violence, economic development and political empowerment.
In some areas, Vatican delegates to preparatory meetings have balked over definitions of reproductive and sexual health that it deemed too broad and saw as opening the door to policies on abortion and contraception that it finds objectionable. They portrayed the conference agenda as the work of Western feminists.
In an interview from her office at Harvard, the 56-year-old Ms. Glendon, the Learned Hand Professor of Law, said that she did not expect the Beijing conference to "reopen the Cairo issues."
"A lot of people forget that this is the Fourth World Conference on Women," she said, stressing the number, "and that the specific theme of this conference is action for equality, development and peace. I feel very pleased about a conference where the primary item on the agenda is to move from talk and good intentions to action."
Critics of Professor Glendon say that in her writings and associations she has been too close to the conservative end of Catholic thinking and out of touch with mainstream women's movements not only in the United States but also increasingly in developing countries.
Frances Kissling, president of Catholics for a Free Choice, said in an interview today that Professor Glendon, whom she described as "a very respected lawyer" and an articulate defender of the Vatican's positions, had on occasion taken positions that were more conservative that the Pope's.
Ms. Kissling said that the appointment of Ms. Glendon "undercuts the the letter of apology the Pope wrote recently to the world's women in which he acknowledged the church's part in discrimination."
Professor Glendon, who is married to a lawyer and has three grown daughters, says she draws on experience at home and at work and on the writings of Pope John Paul II in framing her understanding of equality.
"Real equality involves an affirmation of motherhood and family life," said Ms. Glendon, who has served on several Vatican committees and boards and is considered a founder of the new American "communitarian" movement, which for the last few years has been arguing for the strengthening of civil institutions as well as the family.
"We should not devalue the work women do as mothers and caretakers," she said. "Any kind of equality that does not take into consideration women's legitimate aspirations to have a decent family life, workplace equality and roles in public life is going to be an elusive kind of equality."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prof. Mary Ann Glendon of Harvard, who will head the Vatican delegation to next month's United Nations women's conference. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); HOLY SEE (92%); ITALY (58%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); ROME, ITALY (58%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); HOLY SEE (92%); ITALY (58%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); ROME, ITALY (58%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN RELIGION (94%); SEX EDUCATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ABORTION (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); INTERVIEWS (88%); WRITERS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (87%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); CONTRACEPTION (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); FAMILY LAW (75%); LAWYERS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); FAMILY (73%); FAMILY PLANNING (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); 

PERSON: GLENDON, MARY ANN (PROF); CROSSETTE, BARBARA POPE JOHN PAUL II (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



466 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Orders for Durable Goods Drop as Weakness Persists

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 24

 BODY:
The economy may be rebounding from a flat performance in spring, but factories, at least, are showing hardly any bounce at all.
The Commerce Department reported today that orders for long-lasting manufactured goods fell 1.7 percent in July, a markedly weaker result than was expected and another indication that economic growth should remain slow well into fall. 
 A separate set of Government figures showed that the number of first-time claims for unemployment benefits last week climbed by 10,000, to 348,000, the third straight modest rise, following back-to-back declines in late July.
Taken together, Merrill Lynch told clients, today's reports belie "notions that the U.S. economy can rebound sharply anytime soon" and raise the chances that the Federal Reserve will relax monetary policy and cut interest rates.
The bond market reacted favorably to the signs of economic weakness, with the 30-year Treasury bond rising more than a point in price while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 6.81 percent from 6.91 percent.
The Fed's Open Market Committee, which cut interest rates in early July but decided not to make another cut on Tuesday, is scheduled to meet again on Sept. 26.
While more than 75 percent of July's slide in orders for durable goods was accounted for by the automotive industry, analysts noted weakness, though less pronounced, on a broad front.
Of particular concern, they said, was a drop of 6.6 percent in orders for capital goods other than aircraft and military equipment. That could be a precursor to lower spending by businesses on new plants and equipment, a principal source of growth during what has become a mature business recovery and expansion.
In fact, in one of the most sober reactions to the data, Elliott Platt of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette said that today's report "may very well mark the beginning of the end" of this upswing, which dates to March 1991.
In Philadelphia, Veronika White, an economist at First Fidelity Bancorporation, said that the drop in orders for durable goods, those intended to last at least three years, might have been overstated because of statistical inadequacies but that orders were far from robust.
"Manufacturing is still pretty much dead in the water," she said.
The Commerce Department said the $2.7 billion drop in orders in July was heavily affected by the growing practice among auto makers of shutting plants for two weeks during the month. In the past, summer shutdowns had been spread over a longer period, and the department, one specialist acknowledged, has not fully conformed its seasonal adjustment process to the industry's shift.
Orders for transportation equipment slumped 7.7 percent in July, while those for industrial machinery and equipment fell 4.8 percent, in the first decline since April. Orders for primary metals showed virtually no change, the report showed.
In sharp contrast, orders for electronic goods and other electrical equipment posted an increase of 6.5 percent, more than offsetting a 1.9 percent decline in June. But the introduction of the Microsoft Corporation's Windows 95 computer operating system software today played no role in this, because stand-alone software is not classified as a durable good.
Orders for military equipment, a volatile category, fell 2.9 percent, accounting for one-tenth of a point in the overall 1.7 percent decline in orders to $156.4 billion, seasonally adjusted.
Shipments of durable goods fell 2.7 percent, or $4.4 billion, last month after a rise of eight-tenths of 1 percent in June. It was only the second decline since October, with shipments this year running 8.6 percent ahead of the comparable period in 1994.
The value of unfilled orders fell for the fourth straight month, to $434 billion, but the latest decline was less than one-tenth of 1 percent.
Although jobless claims climbed last week, the four-week moving average eased by 6,000, to 334,750. Mr. Platt said the level of claims showed "a very modest trend of deterioration" in the labor markets.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Orders" tracks manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, seasonally adjusted, from February 1994 through July 1995. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FSBI (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (63%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); RED RIVER BANCSHARES INC (63%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); DURABLE GOODS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ELLIOTT PLATT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



467 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

FIRES RAVAGE LONG ISLAND RESORT AREAS
 As many as 10 homes, a lumberyard and other businesses and the Long Island Rail Road station in Westhampton, L.I., were destroyed by an explosive windblown fire that devoured thousands of acres of woods and scrub pine and threatened an airport and more populated summer resort areas of Suffolk County's South Shore. [A1.] 
 They were brought first to Westhampton High School and later, when that school became too smokey, transferred to Eastport High School. 'And as I was passing by my street," Connie Dyson said, "I got a feeling that my house was gone." [B5.]
 
VICTIM SPOTLIGHTED IN RAPE CONVICTION
 Reginald McFadden, a pardoned murderer and suspected serial killer, was found guilty of rape, but the moment belonged to the rape victim, who went before the cameras at the courthouse and declared herself a victim no longer. [Page A1.]
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
JURY WEIGHS CASE OF A STOLEN CHAGALL
 For a week, a jury in Federal District Court in Manhattan has stared at a precious Marc Chagall painting stolen a quarter-century ago, weighing the fate of a Long Island businessman who says he did not know the canvas was stolen when he bought it. [B3.]
 
EXPERT SAYS MIX INADEQUATE FOR BOMBS
 A Government explosives expert acknowledged in court that bombs could not have been made from the ingredients being used in what prosecutors say was a plot to blow up major buildings and transportation links in the New York area. [B3.]
 
COUNCIL OVERRIDES MAYOR ON PATHMARK
 In another rebuke to Mayor Giuliani, the City Council voted to override the Mayor's veto of a plan to build a giant Pathmark store in Queens -- including a deal under which the company would donate more than $400,000 to other merchants. [B4.]
 
OFFICER INVESTIGATED IN WOMAN'S DEATH
 A police officer in the Bronx is under investigation in the weekend shooting death of a pregnant young woman believed to have been his girlfriend, a senior police official said. [B4.]
 
OFF-DUTY OFFICER SHOOTS TEEN-AGER
 An off-duty police officer shot and wounded a teen-ager who allegedly was robbing the officer's nephew in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, police officials said. [B4.]
 
REGION
 
RIFKIN ADMITS TWO KILLINGS
 With jury selection about to begin in his second murder trial, Joel Rifkin, the unemployed landscaper who has confessed to killing 17 women, pleaded guilty to strangling two women in early 1993 and burying their bodies in shallow graves on the East End of Long Island. [B4.]
 
NURSING HOME PATIENTS ACCUSED IN ABUSE
 Several patients at a county-owned nursing home in Westchester inflicted physical or sexual abuse on at least 10 other patients since December, the New York State Department of Health has charged. [B4.]
 
SCIENTISTS LOSE TRACK OF MANATEE
 Scientists have issued an all-points bulletin: Be on the alert for a missing manatee. Marine biologists who had been tracking the mammal -- which has inexplicably ventured farther north than any manatees have been known to go -- said that they had lost track of it. [B5.]
Our Towns by Evelyn Nieves B5

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Riding the Rails" shows number of subway riders through May from '91-'95. (Source: New York City Transit Authority)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (58%); CITY COUNCIL (58%); NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (57%); WESTHAMPTON HIGH SCHOOL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (58%); NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (57%); WESTHAMPTON HIGH SCHOOL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RESORTS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); MURDER (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); POLICE FORCES (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); MAYORS (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COUNTIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); VERDICTS (74%); GUILTY PLEAS (74%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (74%); HOMICIDE (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); CITIES (73%); VETO (72%); PARDONS (69%); JURY DUTY (68%); ART THEFT (67%); WOMEN (67%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (64%); NURSING HOMES (62%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (61%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (60%); SHOOTINGS (55%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



468 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Lord White, 72, Who Liked Role As a Business Buccaneer, Is Dead

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

 BODY:
Lord White, a co-founder of the British conglomerate Hanson P.L.C. and one of the most successful takeover artists of the 1970's and 1980's, died on Wednesday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 72.
A spokesman for Hanson said Lord White died of a respiratory ailment. He had been hospitalized last month after collapsing on a flight from London to Los Angeles. 
 By combining an eye for undervalued companies with a take-no-prisoners approach to boardroom battles, Gordon White built Hanson into one of the largest British-owned companies. In 1994, Hanson had revenues equivalent to $17.2 billion, at current exchange rates.
For many years Lord White headed Hanson's extensive operations in the United States. His public profile never matched that of Lord Hanson, his close friend and partner. But within the company, the two men operated more or less as equals. And when it came to buying companies -- the main way in which Hanson grew -- Lord White by all accounts was in charge.
"He was the leading takeover expert in the world and I met no businessman, in the U.S.A. or the U.K., with his instinct for opportunity," Lord Hanson said in a statement yesterday.
Lord Hanson called Lord White a "bold, brave and utterly charming latter-day buccaneer, as he liked to think of himself."
It was Lord White who masterminded the company's rapid growth in the United States, to which he moved in 1973. He started by buying relatively small, nondescript industrial companies, but by the mid-1980's had moved on to bigger prey, including the SCM Corporation, the typewriter and chemical company, which he acquired in 1985 for $930 million after a bitter takeover battle.
That deal, in which Hanson subsequently sold off most of SCM's parts, earning a big profit in the process, gave Lord White a reputation as an "asset stripper," a designation that grated on him. He told interviewers that he much preferred to be thought of as a builder of companies, not an industrial deconstructionist.
Lord White also played a key role in many of the company's biggest deals in Britain, including its $2.5 billion acquisition in 1985 of the Imperial Group, a food and tobacco company. But along with Lord Hanson, his reputation took a beating when Hanson lost a hard-fought effort to take over Britain's Imperial Chemical Industries in 1991.
"Although the company carries the Hanson name, it is Gordon White who in some respects has been the surrogate brother -- the intelligent sophisticate, who has carried the more prudent and less instinctive James Hanson along with him," Alex Brummer and Roger Cowe wrote in "Hanson: A Biography" (Fourth Estate, 1994).
The biographers quoted Lord Hanson as saying of Lord White: "Gordon was the buyer. Gordon was the one who sniffed out the possibilities and then went on to conduct the takeovers. He's certainly the brightest person I've ever met in that way."
Born Vincent Gordon Lindsay White on May 11, 1923, in Hedon, England, he served during World War II in the Royal Air Force and then in a clandestine intelligence unit in India, Burma and Siam. After the war he took over his family's publishing company.
He began working with James Hanson in 1964, when both were board members of a truck dealership. By the early 1970's they had built their company, then called Hanson Trust, into a medium-sized conglomerate. But feeling that the weak economy and the political atmosphere in Britain at the time were not conducive to the kind of freewheeling free enterprise he supported, Lord White moved from London to New York, believing that the prospects for making money were much better there.
Like Lord Hanson, he enjoyed his reputation as a playboy, dating models and movie stars -- Mary Tyler Moore, Cheryl Tiegs and Joan Collins among them. After his third marriage, in 1992, to Victoria Ann Tucker, who is 40 years younger than he, he was quoted as saying: "Never marry a young girl. They only want babies."
A horse-racing enthusiast, he persuaded Hanson to invest in a string of thoroughbreds -- an investment that, much to his later embarrassment, lost the company and its shareholders millions of dollars.
He was a big admirer of Margaret Thatcher while she was Britain's Prime Minister. She knighted him in 1979, and gave him a life peerage in 1990. He lived in recent years in Los Angeles.
In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Carolina and Sita, from his first marriage, to Ann Elisabeth Kalen, and a son, Lucas, from his second marriage, to Virginia Ann Northrop.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lord White
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: ORI (ASX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327332 CONCRETE PIPE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS212319 OTHER CRUSHED & BROKEN STONE MINING & QUARRYING (94%); SIC2951 ASPHALT PAVING MIXTURES & BLOCKS (94%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311942 SPICE & EXTRACT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325920 EXPLOSIVES MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2892 EXPLOSIVES (53%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: HANSON LTD (94%); SCM CORP (65%); IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES PLC (53%); ORICA LTD (53%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); TAKEOVERS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (70%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (69%); CHEMICALS (63%); CHEMICALS MFG (63%); WRITERS (61%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (57%); EXCHANGE RATES (54%); 

PERSON: WHITE (LORD) (GORDON WHITE); STEVENSON, RICHARD W LORD WHITE (95%); LORD HANSON (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



469 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: New Tolerance Sprouts Among Cuban Exiles

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 24

 BODY:
When Kenia Serrano Puig, a 21-year-old Communist from Havana, spoke at Florida International University here recently, five police officers shielded her from hecklers in the audience. She was hissed, called a liar and shouted down.
Her sponsors called the event a success. 
 "We were able to hold the meeting and there was no violence," said Ivan Rosero, a student organizer of the event last April. "Ten years ago, that would have been impossible."
Ten years ago, the Puerto Rican singer Lucecita Benitez said, she could not have performed in Miami. Like other Latin American artists who have worked in Cuba or expressed sympathy for its Government, Ms. Benitez was labeled a Communist and shunned by local radio stations.
But two weeks ago, Ms. Benitez made her South Florida debut in Miami Beach. "I just let time go by," she said.
To many Cuban Americans here, the appearances by Ms. Serrano Puig and Ms. Benitez are signs of increasing tolerance for political dissent about Cuba. Exiles who have been fiercely hostile toward Fidel Castro's Government have long dominated political discourse, and those who deviated from the hard line have suffered virulent verbal attacks, ostracism and sometimes violence. But many Cubans here say that political and demographic changes have stretched the parameters of acceptable debate, weakening the hard-liners' message and allowing other views.
Increasingly, moderates are willing to organize and voice opposition to the American trade embargo and other sanctions to avoid further hardship on Cuba. On Spanish-language radio, the standard anti-Castro fare is now complemented by programs like that of Alvaro Sanchez Cifuentes, a commentator on WWFE-Radio Fe who skewers both Cuba's Government and what he calls the "many little Castros" of Miami's exile political groups.
Polls of Cuban-Americans have shown that many, particularly younger adults and those who came in more recent waves of immigration, support the use of various tactics to bring democracy to Cuba. Many more are willing to entertain negotiation, as well as military options.
Since the collapse of the Soviet bloc and after 35 years of exile, many also regard the hard-line posture as a failure. "There's now a political and historical context for an alternative voice to have some legitimacy," said Lisandro Perez, director of the Cuban Research Institute at Florida International University.
But if there is more openness, there is yet to be a breakthrough; the improved climate is still exceptionally limiting of free expression, many exiles say. As recently as last November, Human Rights Watch/ Americas, a group that monitors human rights internationally, concluded in a report about Dade County, Miami's metropolitan area, that when the subject is Cuba, "only a narrow range of speech is acceptable, and views that go beyond these boundaries may be dangerous to the speaker."
Although elected officials and exile political leaders say this view is exaggerated, the Human Rights Watch reports detailed incidents that have long been associated with exile politics: bombings and vandalism of political targets, verbal attacks and name-calling on Spanish-language radio, economic pressure and death threats. The violence has subsided, many exiles agree, but they say that threats are still common and that many people are still gripped by fear of reprisal if they speak up.
The mere mention of Fidel Castro's name still touches off such emotions that last April a local television weatherman changed his professional name from Fidel to Felipe so as not to offend.
"We felt that in the environment we were in, Fidel may not go over very well, " said the weatherman, Fidel Ferro, a Cuban-American who works for WSCV-TV Channel 51.
Human Rights Watch/Americas found that radio was crucial in repressing the free exchange of ideas by allowing denunciations that "have the effect of identifying targets for violent and unstable persons in the listening audience." The group also took local law-enforcement and government officials to task for failing to make arrests in most of the incidents of violence or to publicly defend rights to free speech.
In April 1994, the group said, participants at a conference in Havana sponsored by the Cuban Government were identified by name on the air and vilified as "dogs," "whores" and "spies for Cuba." One program recommended that participants be denied business services, and another invited listeners to single out those who deserved "an act of repudiation," the report said.
Tomas Garcia Fuste, the news director of WCMQ, said he did not censor callers because that would be "the same as in Cuba." But he said, "We promote a hard line, but we don't agree with persecuting people."
More than a year after she attended the Havana conference, and kissed Mr. Castro and called him "a great teacher," Magda Montiel Davis, 42, said she was still paying for it. An immigration lawyer and Democrat who ran unsuccessfully for Congress in 1992, Ms. Montiel Davis was abandoned by her staff and even lifelong friends, kicked out of her dance class and harassed in a way that still makes her avoid crowded places and use bodyguards occasionally.
"Magda, why don't you shop in Cuba?," a young woman taunted in the latest incident when she sighted Ms. Montiel Davis window-shopping at a mall.
Miami, Ms. Montiel Davis says, has not changed.
"Even assuming some improvement," she said, "it's not in the range of what's acceptable for American mores."
But more often free speech is endangered in less striking ways. For the event where Ms. Serrano Puig spoke, the university asked sponsors to pay $3,000 for security. The fee was lowered to $400 when the American Civil Liberties Union threatened to sue, saying the larger amount would have the effect of restraining speech.
At the University of Florida in Gainesville earlier this year, a group of Cuban-American state legislators intervened when students scheduled the appearance of three professors from Havana to talk about investment in Cuba. The lawmakers compared the Cubans to Nazis and Colombian drug traffickers and asked that plans for the event be dropped. But a compromise was reached when opposing speakers were invited.
Cuban-American political leaders say that a small minority is responsible for the worst behavior and that no harm has come to most who adopt a conciliatory stance toward Cuba. They note there is no better evidence of tolerance among exiles than the help they offer to those who only now are leaving Cuba.
"Every day people arrive, and they are welcomed with open arms," said Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, a Republican from Miami.
Many say it is understandable that people who have gone through the trauma and frustration of exile and whose friends or family have been jailed or killed by the Cuban Government would react emotionally to anything that smacks of approval of Mr. Castro. Many exiles compare their experience with the Holocaust. Many also view disunity in their ranks as a gift to Mr. Castro.
Some Cuban-Americans express fear that if the Clinton Administration decides to negotiate with Havana beyond immigration matters, the most extremist exiles might resort to violence. But others note that early militants have grown old or died, and that exile politics have matured.
"We've realized more is achieved with peaceful militancy," said Pedro Reboredo, a member of the Dade County Commission, who last month took part in a flotilla that tried to drop flowers where a tug boat crammed with refugees sank last year. Mr. Reboredo ended up losing a toe when his foot got caught between his boat and a Cuban gunboat that expelled the exiles from Cuba's waters.
Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo, a guerrilla commander in the Cuban revolution who turned against Mr. Castro and was imprisoned for 22 years, said he represented a silent majority who wanted a negotiated transfer of power in Cuba, what he called "the thesis of a peaceful solution."
Last June, he met with the Cuban leader and asked that his group, Cuban Change, be allowed to function as an opposition political party in Cuba. Upon his return here, a few hundred supporters met him at the airport. There were no protesters.
"Miami has undoubtedly changed," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: When Kenia Serrano Puig, a young Communist from Havana, spoke recently at the Miami campus of Florida International University, there was heckling but no violence. Sponsors called the event a success. (Al Diaz/The Miami Herald); A new note of conciliation among Cuban exiles was apparent when Lucecita Benitez sang recently in Miami Beach. Ten years ago, it would have been unheard of for artists who had worked in Cuba or expressed sympathy for the Castro Government to appear in South Florida. (Andrew Itkoff for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (51%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (51%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (51%); FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (91%); FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (91%); FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (72%); FLORIDA, USA (96%); MIAMI, FL, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: CUBAN-AMERICANS HISPANIC AMERICANS (91%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HISTORY (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); IMMIGRATION (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA; BENITEZ, LUCECITA; SERRANO PUIG, KENIA FIDEL CASTRO (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



470 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Germany Cuts Key Interest Rates to 6-Year Lows

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH 

DATELINE: BONN, Aug. 24

 BODY:
Germany's central bank, seeking to reduce the value of the mark and lift the country's economy, cut each of two key lending rates by half a percentage point today, setting their lowest levels in more than six years.
The impact of the cuts in the Bundesbank's discount and Lombard rates could be felt well beyond Germany. Because the Bundesbank effectively sets monetary policy across the Continent, today's action resulted in rate cuts in other European countries. And if the rate reductions do weaken the mark against the dollar in coming weeks, the Federal Reserve would have more leeway to lower interest rates in the United States. 
 Today's rate cuts were announced following the biweekly meeting of the bank's policy-making Central Bank Council. The discount rate was lowered to 3.5 percent from 4 percent and the Lombard rate to 5.5 percent from 6 percent.
The discount rate is the lowest rate at which banks can borrow from the central bank to meet their short-term liquidity needs. It puts a floor under short-term German interest rates. The Lombard rate is applied to loans that banks request only in emergencies, when they need additional funds. It is the highest rate the central bank charges on loans -- a punitive rate -- and puts a ceiling on short-term rates.
The dollar initially rose, then fell against the mark following the Bundesbank's announcement. Some traders, who had been expecting the Bundesbank action, sold dollars to take profits from the American currency's recent rebound against the mark. And the dollar was pulled down further by the release of weak economic data in the United States, which many traders regarded as pointing toward a possible cut in American interest rates as well. [Page D13.]
Interest rate reductions tend to weaken a currency, and economists in Germany said the Bundesbank's rate cuts reflected its growing concern that an excessively strong mark was hurting the German economy. Until the dollar's recent rebound, the mark had risen almost 10 percent against other European currencies and the dollar this year. A strong mark makes German exports more expensive in terms of other currencies, and exports account for more than 30 percent of German economic activity.
"We have seen the mark peak in mid-March," said Gunther Thurman, chief economist at Salomon Brothers in Frankfurt, with the currency on a "downward trend" since then. "I think the Bundesbank is clearly signaling that it wants that downward trend to continue."
Mr. Thurman said that in coming months, the mark could fall as low as 1.60 to the dollar, down from its high of 1.37 earlier in the year. In late New York trading today, the mark stood at 1.4757 to the dollar.
Today's action by the Bundesbank was the latest step taken by the world's three most powerful central banks -- the Fed, the Bundesbank and the Bank of Japan -- to try to increase the dollar's value. Like Germany, Japan's economy has been hurt by the dollar's weakness.
Since the start of July, all three central banks have pushed down interest rates. Last week, for the first time in years, the Bundesbank joined the Fed and the Bank of Japan in a coordinated intervention effort to push up the dollar. The German bank bought an estimated $2 billion of the American currency in the foreign exchange market.
The Bundesbank cuts prompted reductions by the central banks of Austria, the Netherlands, Denmark and Belgium. Those countries peg their currencies to the mark. The central banks of France and Switzerland left their rates unchanged.
The discount rate cut was the second this year. In March, the Bundesbank lowered the rate to 4 percent from 4.5 percent. The Lombard rate had not been cut since May 1994.
The Bundesbank's rates are now at their lowest levels since December 1988. The bank subsequently raised rates sharply because of concern that the vast amounts of money being poured into eastern Germany for German reunification in 1990 would set off runaway inflation.
Though the Bundesbank had been expected for weeks to cut rates, economists had been split about the timing, with some saying the bank would not act until next month.
The timing had been especially uncertain given the Bundesbank's concerns about German inflation. Central bankers are always caught between concerns that a rate cut will spark excessive inflation and that interest rates that are too high will push an economy into recession. Many often opt for too much inflation for the sake of growth and political considerations about maintaining employment.
But the Bundesbank's mandate requires that it first maintain price stability, rather than protect jobs, so it has tended to set a very tough inflation target -- now 2 percent a year -- and to be slower to cut rates than other central banks.
Data released this morning seemed to indicate that inflation would be exactly 2 percent for the year or slightly higher, giving the bank an opportunity to reduce rates.
The Bundesbank said today's rate cuts came in response to "persistently weak development of the money supply," a statement that economists said obliquely referred to fears that the strong mark has pushed the German economy perilously close to recession.
Richard Reid, chief economist at UBS Global Research in Frankfurt, noted that"in the last few days we have seen a lot of negative news about the economy, sliding business confidence, weak new orders for factory goods, and very poor labor-market data. We are going to see a fall in employment this year, and that is very, very poor performance in the second year of a recovery."
Germany's economy grew more than 3 percent last year, but some economists expect an expansion this year of as little as 1.5 percent. Scores of companies have released second-quarter results showing that their profits have been substantially weakened by the strong mark's effect on exports.
The dollar isn't the only currency whose weakness has worried German industry and the Bundesbank. The levels of Italy's lira, Spain's peseta and Britain's pound -- considered the weak currencies of Europe -- have cost German businesses hundreds of millions of dollars in lost sales by making manufacturing in those countries much less expensive than it is in Germany.
The German Government, which has no control over Bundesbank policies, welcomed today's action. "As a result of today's decision by the Bundesbank, the forces for inflation-free growth in Germany will be strengthened further," said Theo Waigel, the Finance Minister.
Amid the general enthusiasm about the Bundesbank's action, some economists argued that German interest rates might be too low. The German Association of Cooperative Banks said in a statement that rates were now at levels that had triggered faster inflation during previous business cycles.
"Especially after the latest rate cuts, price stability must be the primary goal in the forefront of all activities of monetary policy," the group said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "To Weaken the Mark" tracks German short-term interest rates controlled by the Bundesbank, the German central bank. The Lombard rate is charged by the central bank on emergency loans to commercial banks; acts as a ceiling for short-term money-market rates. The Discount rate is the lowest rate at which the central bank lends to commercial banks; acts as a floor for short-term money-market rates. Graph runds from 1991 through yesterday. (Source: Datastream) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK CENTRAL BANK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; EUROPE; GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; DISCOUNT RATE; CURRENCY; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INTEREST RATES (95%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); TRENDS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



471 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Securities' Prices Rise

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The latest Government reports suggesting that the economy is slowing enough to contain inflation turned bears into raging bulls yesterday and sent the prices of Treasury securities sharply higher. Adding to the market's upward direction were sizable rate cuts by Germany's central bank.
Bond prices rallied after the Commerce Department reported a surprising decline of 1.7 percent in July durable goods orders. The drop for big-ticket items as diverse as washers and automobiles compared with the previous month's decline of 0.3 percent. The report contrasted with expectations of a 1.2 percent gain. While the report spelled some disappointment for the economy, it was good news for bonds, because it again raised expectations of another rate cut by the Fed this year, possibly at its next monetary meeting, analysts said. 
 The 30-year bond rose 15/32 to a price of 10025/32 for a yield of 6.81 percent, down from 6.91 percent on Wednesday. For bondholders it meant that for every $1,000 of bonds held they made about $12.19 yesterday.
Traders noted that investors playing the market with borrowed securities and betting that bond prices would fall further found themselves in the middle of a market rally that forced them to cover those short positions, in other words to buy back those borrowed securities to limit losses. And this helped to generate even more buying.
Discussing the German rate cut, Anthony Chan, chief economist at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation in Columbus, Ohio, said: "The bottom line was that the action improved the prospects for a stronger dollar, making dollar-denominated investments like Treasury securities that much more attractive.
"Given that the Fed did not ease short-term rate this time around, the German rate cut is that much more significant for the Treasury market."
Also out yesterday was the weekly jobless claims report for the period that ended on Aug. 19; it showed a 10,000 increase in claimants to 348,000, from an unrevised 338,000 the week before. While the weekly data track how many people are filing first-time unemployment claims at state offices, next week's more comprehensive monthly employment report will survey households and businesses to measure the number of new jobs as well as unemployment.
Other investors took advantage of the early gains in the market to sell Treasuries, betting that prices will not be rising much higher, keeping the market's gains limited.
Mr. Chan said the weakness in the durable goods number was dominated by the temporary shutdowns in the auto industry for changeover and retooling; the Commerce Departmenmt reported that more than 75 percent of the decline in the overall number resulted from softness in the auto sector.
Gerald A. Guile, senior vice president of the taxable fixed income department at Advest Inc., said the much lower goods number confirmed his belief that the rebound in the third quarter would be below expectations.
"Over all, despite the summer doldrums, I think the market is poised to resume the yearlong rally, which will result in new lows in interest rates," Mr. Guile said.
However, he said, any further easing by the Fed at this point would be counterproductive to the bond market rally. "And of course," he said, "the German central bank's lowering of short-term rates is bullish for all worldwide capital markets, including ours."
David Ader, managing analyst at Technical Data in Boston, said the market put in a performance that caught much of Wall Street by surprise. "No one expected the upper end of the recent range to be challanged today," he said, "and it looks like more gains can be made."
Mr. Ader says the question being raised now is whether the Fed may ease next month. The market is in a good position, he added, given a helping hand by aggressive buying from hedge funds and central banks in the shorter maturities.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" tracks average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent, since May. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT GERALD AGUILE (56%); ANTHONY CHAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



472 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Falls After Rate Cuts In Germany Spur Early Gains

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Despite cuts in German interest rates, the dollar ended lower against the mark yesterday in a day of volatile trading.
Interest rates can help to determine the value of a currency; lower interest rates make deposits of the currency less attractive. Thus, the mark would normally fall against the dollar after a rate cut by the German central bank, the Bundesbank, because dollar-based investments would seem a better value. 
 And indeed the dollar rallied after the Bundesbank cut the discount rate to 3.5 percent from 4 percent and the Lombard rate, which acts as the ceiling on money-market rates, to 5.5 percent from 6 percent.
But the dollar later fell, pulled down by a weak United States durable-goods report suggesting that lower American interest rates might be in the offing.
Profit-taking also held down the dollar. Many traders had bet that the Bundesbank would push short-term interest rates lower at its policy council meeting yesterday, particularly after it cut its 14-day securities repurchase agreement rate, known as the repo rate, on Wednesday.
In late New York trading, the dollar settled at 1.4757 marks, down from 1.4833 marks on Wednesday. The dollar also fell to 96.54 Japanese yen from 96.61. The British pound edged up to $1.5454 from $1.5416.
The dollar surged as high as 1.4962 marks, its highest since Feb 16, after the Bundesbank cut the two rates more sharply than many traders had expected.
Other central banks followed the Bundesbank's lead, with rate reductions in Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands and Belgium.
"There was a flurry of dollar buying on optimism" that funds would find their way to high-yielding currencies and assets, said Wayne Grigull, director of foreign exchange sales at Merrill Lynch & Company.
But the dollar fell more than 2 pfennigs, or 1.6 percent, after a report revived fears that the Federal Reserve could cut interest rates to bolster the economy.
The Commerce Department reported that orders to factories in the United States for durable goods fell 1.7 percent in July, suggesting continued slow growth. Many economists had expected a rise in orders.
In addition, the number of first-time jobless claims fell yesterday by a greater-than-expected number for the week, further pointing to a weak economy. As the dollar fell, traders started taking profits.
"As a result, the market is a little nervous about what this means," said Peggy Reed, a vice president at Credit Agricole. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ACA (PAR) (51%); ACA (BIT) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); BELGIUM (55%); NETHERLANDS (53%); AUSTRIA (53%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; JAPAN; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); BELGIUM (55%); NETHERLANDS (53%); AUSTRIA (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); CURRENCIES (91%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); DURABLE GOODS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); BRITISH POUND (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



473 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Ceridian to Acquire Comdata Holdings for $900 Million in Stock

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The Ceridian Corporation said yesterday that it would pay $900 million in stock to acquire the Comdata Holdings Corporation, which provides information services and cash advances to casino gamblers and truck drivers.
The acquisition lets Ceridian, which processes millions of paychecks and employer tax filings, run more transactions through its huge banks of computers. 
 The deal is another example of consolidations in the data-processing industry. Two months ago, another data processor, the First Data Corporation, said it would pay $6.63 billion for the First Financial Management Corporation. Size is crucial to profitability in data processing as more companies farm out their payroll, money-transfer and data operations.
"Size and mass are going to be important in the information services business," said Lawrence Perlman, Ceridian's chairman and chief executive.
Joel Krassner, an analyst with Southcoast Capital, said: "Ceridian has had a strategy of expanding in the information services business. This is part of that move."
Comdata, based in Brentwood, Tenn., provides information services, including money transfers, fuel purchases, cash advances and permits for the trucking industry and casinos. The two companies expect to have combined annual revenue of $1.3 billion.
Under the agreement, each Comdata common share will be exchanged for 0.57 Ceridian common share. Based on Ceridian's closing stock price of $44.125, up $2.25, the deal is valued at $25.15 for each Comdata share. Comdata shares rose $4.3125 yesterday, to $24.1875.
For Ceridian, formerly known as the Control Data Corporation, the acquisition marks a stunning recovery from the 1980's, when it posted hundreds of millions of dollars in losses. The company, based in Minneapolis, shed many of its biggest operations, and under the guidance of Mr. Perlman focused on services like payroll accounting and tax filing, military electronics and radio surveys.
Ceridian said it would take a fourth-quarter charge of $60 million to redeem Comdata's debt.
Comdata's principal stockholders, the venture capital firms of Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe and Charterhouse Equity Partners, said they favored the acquisition. Welsh, Carson, Anderson is credited with bringing the companies together. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (97%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (97%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (97%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (97%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (96%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (93%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (84%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (81%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (69%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMDATA HOLDINGS CORP; CERIDIAN CORP ARBITRON INC (97%); CERIDIAN CORP (96%); COMDATA HOLDINGS CORP (93%); FIRST DATA CORP (84%); WELSH CARSON ANDERSON & STOWE (81%); FIRST FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CORP (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMDATA HOLDINGS CORP; CERIDIAN CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (69%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); INDUSTRY PROFILES HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); COMMON STOCK (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (77%); TRUCKING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); TRUCKING (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (63%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE PERLMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



474 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: Rabbi Isaac Lewin, 89, Teacher Of Jewish History at Yeshiva U.

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Rabbi Isaac Lewin, a scholar of Jewish history and the history of Jewish law who often spoke for Orthodox Jewry before international bodies, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 89 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
Rabbi Lewin was professor emeritus of Jewish history at the Bernard Revel Graduate School of Yeshiva University. He taught at Yeshiva from 1944 until his retirement 10 years ago. 
 His writings were published in English, Hebrew, Yiddish, Polish and German. He was an architect of the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and Discrimination Based on Religion, which was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1981. For this, he was awarded the United Nation's Medal of Peace.
Rabbi Lewin was born in Wieliczka, near Cracow, was ordained as a rabbi in Poland in 1935 and received a law degree two years later. He served two terms on the City Council of Lodz, Poland's second-largest city.
He arrived in the United States in 1941 and worked for the rescue of Jews left behind in Nazi-occupied Europe. After V-E Day he promptly went on a relief mission to help Holocaust survivors and displaced persons.
After the war, he became the spokesman for the Agudas Israel World Organization before the United Nations Social and Economic Council. A collection of his addresses there and in other international forums was published in 1953.
He was the editor of "These I Will Remember," two volumes in Hebrew of biographies of Jewish leaders who perished in World War II. He was among a delegation of Orthodox rabbis who obtained a 1983 agreement from the Polish Government to help restore the Jewish cemeteries that were neglected since the war.
The city of Warsaw presented its Golden Badge of Merit to him in 1988, honoring him for promoting international relations and cooperation among peoples.
At Yeshiva, he also served as principal of Jewish studies at the university's high school for girls.
Rabbi Lewin is survived by two sons, Nathan Lewin of Washington and Rabbi Naftali Lewin of Manhattan, and two granddaughters. His wife of 45 years, Peppy Sternheim Lewin, died in 1980.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); WARSAW, POLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); AGUDAS ISRAEL WORLD ORGANIZATION (55%); AGUDAS ISRAEL WORLD ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); AGUDAS ISRAEL WORLD ORGANIZATION (55%); AGUDAS ISRAEL WORLD ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); WARSAW, POLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); JEWS & JUDAISM (97%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); GENOCIDE (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); HOLOCAUST (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); RELIGION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); DISPLACED PERSONS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); CITIES (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); CEMETERIES (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIN, ISAAC (RABBI); SAXON, WOLFGANG NATHAN LEWIN (92%); ISAAC LEWIN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



475 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Guilty Plea By Murderer Represents About-Face

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON 

DATELINE: RIVERHEAD, L.I., Aug. 24

 BODY:
With jury selection about to begin in his second murder trial, Joel Rifkin, the unemployed landscaper who has confessed to killing 17 women, pleaded guilty today to strangling two women in early 1993 and burying their bodies in shallow graves on the East End of Long Island.
The plea was a surprise turnabout by Mr. Rifkin and his lawyers, who for the last year have said they would pursue an insanity defense supported by hypnosis and a theory that he killed because, as an adopted child, he suffered irreparable psychological harm. 
 Mr. Rifkin, 35, ran through a succession of lawyers and at one point indicated that he might defend himself.
"He apparently ran out of options," said Michael Ahearn, the Suffolk County assistant district attorney who prosecuted the case. Mr. Ahearn said that he was surprised by today's "total admission of guilt" by Mr. Rifkin and that he would ask the court for a sentence of 50 years to life in prison. Sentencing is scheduled for Sept. 18.
It was unclear whether Mr. Rifkin's plea today meant that he would not contest the other murder charges he still faces in Brooklyn, Queens and elsewhere. But his lawyer, Kathleen K. Trum, indicated that his legal battles were not over yet.
Her office released a statement saying that her client had no choice but to plead guilty after the judge, John J. Jones Jr. of Suffolk County Court, denied defense motions on Wednesday to have Mr. Rifkin's mental state further evaluated by psychiatrists.
"The denial of this motion rendered it impossible to prepare a thorough defense," Ms. Trum said, adding that Mr. Rifkin would appeal the matter after sentencing. She said the denial deprived Mr. Rifkin of his constitutional rights to a fair trial.
Mr. Ahearn rejected such claims. He said Mr. Rifkin had 15 months to prepare a defense and had been examined by two psychiatrists, a psychologist and a neurosurgeon at a cost to the county of $50,000.
"He's just looking for someone to come up with something he could use as a defense," Mr. Ahearn said.
He said he would ask that the sentence in the Suffolk case run consecutively with the 27-year-to-life sentence Mr. Rifkin received after his first trial in Nassau County in the murder of Tiffany Bresciani, 19, of Manhattan. Ms. Bresciani's body was found in the back of Mr. Rifkin's pickup truck on June 28, 1993, when he was stopped for a traffic violation.
After his arrest, Mr. Rifkin signed a detailed confession in which he admitted to killing not only Ms. Bresciani, but 16 other women and disposing of their bodies in graves and waterways throughout the New York metropolitan area.
He told investigators that his victims were prostitutes whom he picked up in Manhattan and strangled during sex.
The victims in Suffolk were Leah Evens of Brooklyn and Lauren Marquez of Sunnyside, Queens.
Ms. Evens's body was discovered on May 9, 1993, beneath brush near County Road 51 in Northampton, L.I., by a group of hikers looking for edible ferns in the woods. Ms. Marquez's body was found in a shallow grave in Southampton as a result of statements Mr. Rifkin made to the police.
Property belonging to both women was found in Mr. Rifkin's home in East Meadow, which he shared with his mother, Jean Rifkin, who did not appear in court today.
Mr. Rifkin sought to have his confession ruled inadmissible, contending that the police had not properly informed him of his right to remain silent. The defense move was rejected by the courts in Nassau and Suffolk.
During his trial in Nassau, Mr. Rifkin pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity, contending that he was schizophrenic and could not tell the difference between right and wrong. But a jury rejected that contention.
Mr. Rifkin is next expected to face trial in Brooklyn, where a pretrial hearing is scheduled for Sept. 11 in Brooklyn Supreme Court before Justice Francis X. Egitto. Another pretrial hearing is scheduled the following day in Queens, where Mr. Rifkin faces a one-count murder indictment.
He is charged in Brooklyn with the deaths of three women whose dismembered bodies were found in 55-gallon drums that were dumped in Newtown Creek and Coney Island Creek. One victim was given the name Jane Doe. The others were identified as Lorraine Orvieto, 30, of Stony Brook, L.I., and Mary Ann Holloman, 42, of Manhattan.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (58%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (58%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SERIAL MURDERS GUILTY PLEAS (93%); MURDER (92%); LAWYERS (91%); SENTENCING (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); INSANITY DEFENSE (78%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JURY DUTY (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); ARRESTS (71%); NEUROSCIENCE (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T; RIFKIN, JOEL JOEL RIFKIN (97%); MICHAEL AHEARN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



476 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: BEIJING DEPORTS AMERICAN AS SPY AND HE FLIES HOME

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Friday, Aug. 25

 BODY:
Chinese authorities announced early today that they had expelled the American human rights activist Harry Wu, a day after a Chinese court found him guilty of spying and stealing state secrets.
Although the court sentenced him to 15 years in prison, it also specified that Mr. Wu's punishment include expulsion. Shortly after midnight local time, the New China News Agency reported that Mr. Wu had indeed been expelled, and he arrived in California Thursday evening, Pacific daylight time. 
 Mr. Wu appeared haggard on his return to the United States, and he made no statement to reporters. [Page A4.]
The release of Mr. Wu, whose plight seemed to epitomize American concerns about human rights in China, was greeted by diplomats as welcome news in a year when one event after another seemed to drive the two countries apart.
"The Chinese have understood that this is the first step in patching things up," said James R. Lilley, a former United States Ambassador to Beijing. "It was very hard to do that when Harry Wu was still held."
Mr. Lilley and other China specialists said Mr. Wu's case was one of the most important in the test of wills between China and the United States, in which each side seems eager to repair their battered relationship but needs to fend off domestic accusations of caving in to the other.
"I think they expect a response," Mr. Lilley said, referring to the Chinese side.
It may come soon. Undersecretary of State Peter Tarnoff arrived in Shanghai on Thursday night, and is scheduled to go to Beijing today for meetings with Deputy Foreign Minister Li Zhaoxing.
Beijing has sought assurances from Washington that it will limit its support for Taiwan's efforts to win diplomatic recognition around the world, which Chinese leaders see as a move toward independence and away from reunification with the mainland. The Chinese President, Jiang Zemin, is also believed to be eager for a summit meeting with President Clinton.
Chinese leaders also want to see Hillary Rodham Clinton attend the Fourth World Conference on Women, which opens in Beijing on Sept. 4. Although Mrs. Clinton clearly wants to attend, a decision had been delayed, apparently in the hope of provoking some progress in Mr. Wu's case.
In Jackson, Wyo., where President Clinton is vacationing, the White House press secretary, Michael D. McCurry, issued a statement Thursday afternoon, saying: "The President welcomes the Chinese Government's decision and is pleased that Mr. Wu will be reunited with his family and friends later today. This action removes an obstacle to improving relations between the United States and China."
The New China News Agency report said that the decision to expel Mr. Wu was made immediately after he told the court that he accepted its decision and would not appeal it.
"I accept the court's decision," the agency quoted Mr. Wu as saying.
Mr. Wu, 58, spent 19 years in Chinese prisons and labor camps before leaving the country in 1985 and becoming an American citizen. In recent years he angered Chinese officials through his written and televised reports on abuses in the country's system of prison labor.
He was arrested when he tried to enter China on June 19 and the Chinese decision to charge him with spying and stealing state secrets, rather than simply turn him away or expel him, turned his case into an international cause.
Although some China specialists see Mr. Wu's release as a victory for President Jiang Zemin, who faces internal opposition on his handling of Chinese-American relations, Mr. Lilley detected the hand of Deng Xiaoping, China's paramount leader, who recently celebrated his 91st birthday and whose health is believed to have improved recently.
"Deng wants Taiwan-American issues to be handled pragmatically," Mr. Lilley said. "He did not want to see the American relationship keep sliding."
In a state television broadcast on Thursday night, Mr. Wu was shown standing in the dock of a courtroom in Wuhan, looking somewhat weak, his head bowed. He wore a wrinkled white shirt with the sleeves rolled up and limped as he was led away.
"While in custody," another New China News Agency report said, "Wu received good, humane treatment and timely medical treatment for his leg ailments, and he expressed his thanks for this."
The news agency also reported that Mr. Wu had confessed to breaking the law, ordinarily a condition for the resolution of any case in China.
"After thinking carefully and self-examination, I have sincerely drawn the conclusion that the following facts show that I have damaged the interests of the Chinese Government and the Chinese people directly or indirectly and that I have violated Chinese laws," the agency quoted him as saying.
In a lengthy account of Mr. Wu's alleged wrongdoing, the agency reported late Thursday that he had hoodwinked Chinese prison and medical authorities on repeated occasions during visits to China over the past three years.
"From 1991 to 1994, Wu entered China bringing in other persons under the pretext of visiting friends, traveling, and doing business for the purpose of spying and illegally obtaining Chinese state secrets and providing them to overseas institutes and organizations," the report said.
"Three times, he filmed guard facilities, reform through labor sites, and the layout of a prison in Shanxi Province," it said. "Accompanied by a man named Chen, he stole one confidential document from each of two factories in Shanghai."
The report also accused Mr. Wu of paying a Hong Kong man $4,000 to spy on, and film, guard facilities at Chinese prisons.
"Then, in August 1991, wearing a police uniform, he passed himself off as a policeman and sneaked into a prison in Qinghai Province to do more illegal filming," the report said.
The report seemed to be at pains to describe Mr. Wu's case in legal terms, apparently to support its insistence that his prosecution was handled according to law.
"Based on facts and evidence, the court confirmed that Wu had violated the supplementary regulations on . . . leaking state secrets promulgated by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress and article 166 of the criminal law of the People's Republic of China." the report said. "After considering the facts, evidence as well as his admission of guilt, and his having been used by others, the court reached its judgment."
Mr. Wu was represented by two local lawyers, the report also said, adding that the hearing was attended by a United States consular official, First Secretary Daniel Piccuta, who was also shown in the television report.
Technically, Mr. Wu had the right to appeal within 10 days, though an appeal in China rarely leads to a reversal. A spokeswoman for the United States Embassy in Beijing said that Mr. Wu, after conferring with his lawyers, decided at the sentencing not to appeal.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
China Said to Hold 2 Professors
 BEIJING, Aug. 24 (Reuters) -- China has detained a husband and wife who are college professors and known campaigners for the Government to recognize the 1989 student protests as legitimate, a friend said today.
Ding Zilin and her husband Jiang Peikun, both professors at the People's University in Beijing, were escorted from her husband's home in the southern city of Wuxi on Aug. 18 by officials of the city procurator's office and are being held there, the friend, who asked not to be identified, said by telephone.
Ding Zilin has pushed for the Government to recognize the 1989 student-led pro-democracy demonstrations as legitimate since her only son was killed on the night of June 3, 1989, when army troops and tanks crushed the protests in Beijing.
The friend quoted city officials as saying Ding had been detained for an "economic problem."
The real reason, the friend said, was to prevent contact between Ding and any of the thousands of women coming to Beijing to attend the Sept. 4-15 United Nations World Conference on Women and a grassroots forum that precedes it.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harry Wu, the Chinese-American activist, hugged his assistant, David Welker, in San Francisco last night. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOURTH WORLD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (96%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WOMEN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); VERDICTS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); DEPORTATION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); LITIGATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH; WU, HARRY; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; TARNOFF, PETER (UNDER SEC); LILLEY, JAMES R BILL CLINTON (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



477 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Mexico: Who Was Right?

BYLINE: By Patrick J. Buchanan; Patrick J. Buchanan is a candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination.

DATELINE: McLEAN, Va.

 BODY:
During debate on the North America Free Trade Agreement, its celebrants promised three things: Our trade surplus with Mexico would grow; scores of thousands of new jobs would be created in the United States; illegal immigration would ease.
Five former Presidents urged its passage, as did the Heritage Foundation, the Brookings Institution, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, the United States Chamber of Commerce, the Council on Foreign Relations and the Trilateral Commission. 
 Ross Perot, Ralph Nader and I were derided as the "Halloween Coalition." When objections were raised to the American partnership with the corruption-riddled Government of Carlos Salinas de Gortari, Henry Kissinger rose to its defense. "I know no government anywhere that is more competent," he said.
Well, the early returns are in, and, as Lord Melbourne observed, "Nothing that the wise men promised has happened, and everything the damned fools said would happen has come to pass!"
One year after Nafta, Mexico devalued the peso, wiping out billions in United States investments. Our trade surplus has vanished. A $17 billion deficit is expected in 1995. Translation: 340,000 lost American jobs. Our winter tomato industry is in ruins. Illegal immigration is rising. Mexico has become the port of entry for America's cocaine.
And, oh yes, Mr. Salinas was asked to leave the country, and is now under investigation for the cover-up of an assassination, while Mr. Clinton and the Nafta Republicans put us on the hook for $50 billion in loans to Mexico City.
Newly installed President Ernesto Zedillo said he needed the cash to pay off bonds held by Citibank and Goldman Sachs, lest the New World Order come crashing down around the ears of its panicked acolytes. We shall never see the money again; our grandchildren will pay it off.
Comes now a report from the International Monetary Fund that we were had. The Mexican crisis was overblown. Mexicans themselves had panicked and pulled down the peso. The world financial system was never in danger.
As with Vietnam, where the Best and Brightest who marched us in went on to new careers while the families of the 58,000 dead grieved, so it is with Nafta. For America's elite there is never accountability. That is for the rest of us.
But there are winners in the trade agreement scam. American companies are closing factories here, and from Monterrey to Mexico City, a new Detroit is rising. Nafta made Mexico an "enterprise zone" of 90 million people where the minimum wage is 58 cents an hour, American health and safety standards do not exist, and men will fight one another to live in shacks outside a plant gate to work 10 hours a day for a fraction of the wage Americans get.
In 1924, the party of Coolidge defended a 40 percent tariff by declaring as its purpose: "To support the high American economic level of life for the average family and to prevent a lowering to the level of economic life prevailing in other lands." From Lincoln on, that was party dogma.
Of another tariff, Daniel Webster wrote, "I am looking not for a law such as will benefit capitalists -- they can take care of themselves -- but for a law that shall induce capitalists to invest their capital in such a manner as to occupy and employ American labor." We, too, seek such laws.
Between the declining real wages of American workers, down 20 percent in 20 years, and treaties like Nafta, the correlation is absolute. Yet those who call for restoring a trade policy that puts America first are answered with the epithets of our elites: "Isolationists!" "Protectionists!" "Nativists!"
Toward Mexico's hard-working people, robbed repeatedly by their own governments, we offer friendship. Toward the one-party kleptocracy that has misruled Mexico for 60 years, whose proudest boast is that in 1938 it stole American oil wells, our policy should be cool correctness.
Nafta should be canceled. A contract negotiated in deceit is no contract at all. And as Mexico defends her southern border, we should defend ours -- with a security fence. As Ronald Reagan said, "A country that cannot defend its borders isn't really a country anymore."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (58%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (58%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (58%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (58%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (96%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TREATIES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; CURRENCY; CREDIT FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DEVALUATION (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); HALLOWEEN (70%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); CHILDREN (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (62%); COCAINE (51%); 

PERSON: BUCHANAN, PATRICK J RALPH NADER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



478 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Bradley Takes Stock

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
When I asked Bill Bradley directly if he wanted to be President, he hesitated briefly, then said: "At some time. Yes."
He would not say when or how he might make his move, insisting that those questions were "premature." The cerebral and highly respected Senator from New Jersey, who has already announced he will not seek a fourth term, has not yet mapped the most efficacious route to the White House. An independent run in '96? An alliance with Colin Powell? A run for the Democratic nomination in 2000? 
 These are questions that, for the moment, have to be finessed.
"What I am trying to do is resist the push into personalities and candidacies," Mr. Bradley said. Instead he would like to use this period of political transformation, what he calls "this teachable moment," to focus on the deeper issues that face the American people -- complex issues like the economic insecurity of the middle class and the poor, the deterioration of civil society, the ever-festering problem of race relations and the need to reinvigorate the democratic process.
These are not problems that can be dealt with by taking a poll, by dodging to the left in one speech and darting to the right in another, by wearing an insipid, all-purpose smile for this primary and that caucus, by spending millions in attack ads.
Politics is out of control. While party leaders Bill and Newt are having their excellent adventure, much of America is hitting the skids. At some point a country needs intelligent, deliberate, mature and principled leadership.
Without mentioning specific names, Senator Bradley has been broadly critical of politicians in both parties. They do not speak, he said, to those compelling and fundamental issues that are part of the everyday lives of the people they purport to represent.
When you add to that phenomenon the ever-increasing and ever more obvious role of big, big money in politics, you are left with no reason to wonder why ordinary Americans feel disconnected from the men and women in power.
In last fall's election, only 38 percent of all eligible voters bothered to go to the polls.
Meanwhile, the politicians (and the media) go nuts over each piddling step in what is now a perpetual national campaign. (Example: the ridiculous $25-a-vote straw poll in Iowa last week.) This campaign has little relevance to the specific concerns of a household in, say, central New Jersey in which the breadwinner has just been fired after 20 years of faithful service; or a family whose home has just been lost to foreclosure, or a retired couple whose life savings have vanished because of a catastrophic illness.
Phil Gramm did well in Iowa? Give me a moment while I try to rev up some enthusiasm.
Senator Bradley believes there is a hunger within the citizenry for a serious approach to the tough issues of the day. He has ideas and insists that, whether he runs for President or not, he will give them an airing. Inevitably his views are complex. While he is a strong supporter of free trade and the technological innovations that have made the U.S. economy more productive and thus more competitive, he feels just as strongly that more needs to be done to help those workers caught in the hideous web of downsizing.
"We have to take the brunt of the responsibility and the cost for this type of dislocation off of the shoulders of the employee who is being fired and put it on the shoulders of the stockholders and management," he said.
Pensions can be made more portable. Companies can be required to pay an extended amount of post-discharge health care coverage. New ways of organizing employee groups can be developed.
But economic dislocation is just one of many issues that demand serious attention and do not lend themselves to a clever sound bite or a 30-second campaign commercial. We are told in every election that the candidates want to address the issues seriously. And every year we fall more deeply into the pit of political foolishness.
Bill Bradley wants to change that scenario. He is a man of integrity and seriousness of purpose. He is looking for a route to the White House. Fine. That may prove to be the easy part. What is really difficult for a thoughtful person in the chaos of today's politics and media coverage is simply finding a way to be heard.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 POLITICS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); FORECLOSURE (60%); RACE & RACISM (52%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; BRADLEY, BILL (SEN) PHIL GRAMM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1995



479 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Boatmen's to Buy Fourth In a $1 Billion Bank Merger
Boatmen's Bancshares agreed to acquire the Fourth Financial Corporation for $1.2 billion in stock, creating a new banking giant in the Midwest. Boatmen's, the largest banking company in Missouri and 30th in the nation, has about 500 offices in 9 states in the Midwest and Southwest. Fourth Financial is the largest banking company in Kansas and one of the largest in Oklahoma. [Page 36.]
 
A Start-Up Hopes to Develop Breakthrough in Heart Surgery
A Silicon Valley start-up named Heartport said it had developed a technology to allow coronary bypass surgery to be performed through a tiny incision between the ribs, promising far less pain and trauma than current methods that split open the breastbone. But the advance could be two years away from being generally available.
 Analysts say Heartport's technology could cut the cost of a coronary bypass -- which can be as high as $50,000 -- by $10,000 or more. The development needs F.D.A. approval, but investment bankers are already scrambling to underwrite an initial public offering. [34.]
 
Bond Yield Falls to 6.70%
Treasury securities surged in price, cutting the yield on the 30-year bond to its lowest level in six weeks. Traders said the gains were driven by follow-through buying from Thursday and were bolstered as short sellers scrambled to cover their positions. [36.]
 
Fed May Lower Rates Soon
Federal Reserve policy makers gave Alan Greenspan the power to cut short-term interest rates this summer. He didn't take up the offer, but the discretion given him strongly suggests that the Fed may lower interest rates in the coming months. [35.]
 
Home Sales Sprinted in July
Home resales surged 5 percent in July to an annual rate of 3.99 million units, their highest annual rate in more than a year, as mortgage rates fell, an industry group said. But the market may have peaked. [35.]
 
Harsh Words for Honda
A Federal judge criticized Honda's role in a scandal in which company executives solicited bribes from dealers. The judge, who sentenced former executives, said the company "could well be accused of being negligent," but not criminally culpable, for ignoring the scandal's warning signs. The comments seemed likely to bolster the more than two dozen lawsuits brought by dealers against Honda. [35.]
 
Dollar Skids in Turbulent Day
The dollar fell against the German mark after Finance Minister Alain Madelin of France resigned, suggesting that there was dissension in the conservative Chirac Government. The political uncertainty caused dealers to unload dollars as well as French francs, as they rushed to buy marks. [32.]
 
In futures trading, prices of coffee, gasoline and corn all rose. [32.]
 
Geico Takeover Lifts Stocks
Stocks rose, led by banking and insurance companies, but technology shares fell. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 20.78 points, to 4,601.4, its biggest gain in almost two weeks. For the week, the average slipped 16.2 points. Stocks took strength from the plans for Warren Buffett's investment company to buy the rest of the insurer Geico for $2.3 billion. Microsoft slipped for a third consecutive day, losing 1 3/4 to 94 3/8 , and I.B.M. fell 1 to 103 7/8.[37.]
 
Crisis Claims 9 Russian Banks
Russian banks have begun to default on credit obligations, but the crisis may ultimately prove to be healthy if it weeds out weak institutions. Overnight lending rates have soared. The crisis began unfolding in July, when the Government limited ruble speculation by banks, cutting off a lucrative source of profits. And in the last week or so, nine banks failed to meet some of their credit obligations. [34.]
 
F.A.A. Orders Blades Grounded
The F.A.A. ordered airlines to take out of service any propeller blades for Embraer 120 Brasilia aircraft that had undergone significant repairs. The action follows the crash of one of the twin-engine turboprop planes in Georgia on Monday. The agency estimated 20 blades would be affected. [6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (95%); BAC (LSE) (95%); 8648 (TSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (95%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (50%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (72%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MERGERS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); CURRENCIES (84%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); STARTUPS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); FUTURES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); GRAIN MARKETS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); EXISTING HOME SALES (68%); COFFEE MARKETS (66%); PRICE CUTTING (66%); JUDGES (66%); SENTENCING (64%); MORTGAGE RATES (64%); NEGLIGENCE (64%); BRIBERY (61%); LITIGATION (61%); CONSERVATISM (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); GERMAN MARK (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995



480 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Executive Charged With Raping Job Applicant

BYLINE: By RONALD SULLIVAN 

 BODY:
A top executive of a $1 billion private holding company was charged yesterday with luring a 19-year-old woman to the company's offices at 30 Rockefeller Center for a job interview after hours and then raping and sodomizing her in the company's conference room.
 The police identified the suspect as Marvin Koenig, a 63-year-old Scarsdale resident who is executive vice president of Renco Group Inc., a company that buys and controls other concerns. The police said the attack occurred on March 24. After five months of investigation had failed to result in an arrest, the police said the suspect was finally tripped up by surveillance elevator cameras that had been installed at Rockefeller Center the day before the woman was attacked. 
 Mr. Koenig's lawyer, G. Michael Bellinger, said his client "denies all the charges" and would ask to testify before a grand jury. A receptionist at Renco would not forward calls and a reporter was turned away at its door.
 John J. Hill, Chief of Manhattan detectives, said that Mr. Koenig was incriminated when, unaware of being videotaped, he rode up with the woman to the company's office off the marble, wood and brass hallways of the 42d floor.
 But Chief Hill said the woman, who said she panicked during the attack, could not identify the office she was taken to or remember in which Rockefeller Center building it was. She did, however, remember that it was on the 42d floor.
 As a result, he said, detectives with the suspect's photograph began a surveillance on the 42d floors of the center's buildings, watching everyone coming in and out who might fit the suspect's description.
 On Tuesday, Chief Hill said, detectives recognized Mr. Koenig near his office but did not arrest him because they wanted to subpoena what they believed was incriminating evidence -- a pornographic video and a knife described by the woman -- inside Renco's office and did not want to provide advance warning.
 Chief Hill charged that Mr. Koenig found his victim by making random calls to a pay phone in the lobby of a single-room-occupancy hotel on Broadway between 100th and 110th Streets on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
 On March 24, the police said, the victim took the call by chance and Mr. Koenig told her he had meant to call someone else. Chief Hill said they believed that Mr. Koenig had used the same ruse earlier, but that it had not resulted in a crime. He would not elaborate.
 "We believe there are more potential victims out there, and we want them to come forward," he said at a news conference at Police Headquarters yesterday.
 Told by the woman that she was unemployed, Chief Hill said, Mr. Koenig talked her into coming down to Rockefeller Center for a job interview, offering her $10 an hour for a clerical position. "All she wanted was a job, nothing else," Chief Hill said.
 After meeting near the Atlas Statue at Rockefeller Center, Chief Hill said, the couple had an early Mexican supper at the center. He said Mr. Koenig, who gave her a false name, took her through the center's busy grand concourse lobby, where she lost her bearings. They then rode up to the deserted Renco offices, the police said, where Mr. Koenig took her to a conference room and told her he would play a video outlining her clerical duties.
 But the video, Chief Hill said, was a pornographic movie, and he then sexually attacked her at knife point.
 After leaving the office in a panic, the victim said she called her boyfriend and then the police.
 When arrested at his office on Thursday, Mr. Koenig was shocked, Chief Hill said. He also said the victim's description of the office in which she was attacked was identical to the Renco office. "Our evidence is absolutely solid," he said. "She even was able to identify the ring on his finger."
 The police said the pornographic movie was later recovered from the office as well as a knife.
 Mr. Koenig lives in a Normandy chateau-style home behind a circular drive on Penn Boulevard, a leafy avenue of manicured lawns and well-tended shrubbery in the affluent Westchester County suburb of Scarsdale.
 Mr. Koenig was released yesterday on $25,000 bail after a hearing attended by his wife and daughter in Criminal Court in Manhattan on charges of rape and sodomy in the first degree and possession of a dangerous weapon. If convicted, he faces a maximum sentence of up to 25 years in prison.
 Renco is a highly diversified, privately held holding company with revenues of more than $1 billion a year. It owns several steel companies, one of the country's largest lead producing companies and the AM General Corporation, which manufacturers the Hummer, the military vehicle that gained prominence during the Persian Gulf War.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marvin Koenig, 63, an executive vice president of a holding company who was charged with rape, as he was escorted to court yesterday. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: RCP (NYSE) (73%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (72%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: RENCO GROUP INC RENCO GROUP INC (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: RENCO GROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: SEX CRIMES SEX OFFENSES (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SUBPOENAS (89%); ARRESTS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); EVIDENCE (73%); PORNOGRAPHY (71%); TESTIMONY (68%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, RONALD; KOENIG, MARVIN MARVIN KOENIG (96%); JOHN J HILL (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995



481 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:
FIRE RAGES FOR 2D DAY IN SUFFOLK COUNTY
New York State's worst ground fire in decades raged for a second day in Suffolk County, but its threat to a South Shore resort community appeared to ease, and officials said it might be brought under control today. The blaze posed Herculean hardships for weary firefighters and raised a testy political issue between state authorities who anticipated airborne tankers to fight the flames and Federal officials who failed to fulfill a promise to deliver them. The police said an arsonist may have been behind the blaze. [Page 1.]
 
Station Road in Westhampton, L.I., one of the neighborhoods most damaged by the brush fires, has become a study of illogical contrasts. The fire that roared through on Thursday night burned a sickle pattern, virtually destroying some houses while miraculously sparing others next door. [1.]
 
Environmental experts said a program of controlled burning, adopted in June, would eventually fend off disastrous wild blazes. [25.]
 
In the absence of the C-130 tanker planes that officials had hoped for, the strategy against the flames was mostly old-fashioned and tedious work. [25.]
 
AT THIS CAMP, STUDIES BEFORE SWIMMING
A grandmother wearing the thick head scarf and ankle-length dress of an observant Muslim sits in the 85-degree heat, tobacco smoke swirling up from her water pipe. Every so often, a call to prayer booms through the trees. A prayer leader hikes along the gravel path skirting the campsites. He's traded his traditional dress for jeans and a T-shirt. It's Islamic summer camp in the Poconos. [1.]
 
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
NO LAYOFFS PLEDGED AT SCHOOL OPENING
Its budget still in upheaval, the New York City Board of Education tried to smooth the opening of school next month, telling superintendents that no teachers or other school staff would be laid off during the first eight days of school. The directive did not resolve how the board plans to close the $230 million gap that remains in its budget. [23.]
 
GUILTY VERDICT IN THEFT OF PAINTING
A New York City financier who made millions off tax shelters in the 1980's was convicted in Federal District Court in Manhattan of buying a stolen Marc Chagall painting and trying to sell it a decade later on the black market. For the financier, Barry H. Trupin, the verdict was the bitter end of a long fall from grace that began in the mid-1980's. [23.]
 
ARREST IN SHOOTING AT BASKETBALL GAME
A 24-year-old man was arrested in the slaying of one of two men who were shot and killed during a crowded basketball tournament at Baisley Pond Park in Queens last month, the police said. [22.]
 
 
REGION
 
INDIANS OFFER DEAL ON CASINO
With efforts to legalize casino gambling outside Indian territory gaining momentum in New York and Connecticut, the Oneida Indians have upped the ante in their bid to open the first casino within 100 miles of New York City. They are offering to pay the state the equivalent of the top corporate income tax in exchange for Governor Pataki's approval. [25.]
 
Traffic Alert 24

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Urban Unemployment" shows yearly unrban unemplyment averages from 1990 to 1995 and June 1995. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FOREST FIRES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FIRES (90%); BUDGETS (87%); VERDICTS (85%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (85%); ARSON (79%); CASINOS (78%); CLOSINGS (75%); ARRESTS (75%); SCHOOL BOARDS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); CAMPING (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); RELIGION (70%); LAYOFFS (68%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); BASKETBALL (65%); HOMICIDE (65%); SHOOTINGS (63%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (63%); ART THEFT (61%); GAMING (60%); TOURNAMENTS (60%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995



482 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: French Cold-Shoulder Riviera City

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: TOULON, France, Aug. 22

 BODY:
"Look around the harbor -- there's nobody here, even though it's the height of the vacation season," growled Andre Herrero, a burly former rugby star many people in this French Mediterranean port regard as their unelected mayor.
This summer, he said, his restaurant and the other tourist venues on the harbor promenade had the worst season he can remember, and he blames the Mayor the people of Toulon actually did elect last June. 
 That is Jean-Marie Le Chevallier, a leading figure in the far-right National Front Party, which largely blames the millions of immigrants from North Africa and other former French colonial territories for the housing shortages, high unemployment and soaring crime rates afflicting France today.
The North African population is particularly high in Toulon, a city of 170,000 that became a symbol of political incorrectness when it elected Mr. Le Chevallier with 37 percent of the vote. Many of the lower-middle-class French families who come to this part of the Riviera in August stayed away from Toulon in protest, even though polls indicate that a lot of the support for the National Front comes from their ranks.
"There were plenty of visitors down the coast in Bandol last night," said Sylvain Caille, setting up the candy stand he runs on Toulon harbor this morning. "There's hardly anybody here."
Toulon's spectacular natural setting, a broad harbor ringed by mountains, brings southern California to mind, as does the huge naval base and the region's political reaction to both legal and illegal immigration.
The pockets of poverty and the downtown core, where people hang laundry from the balconies of crumbling five- and six-story stone buildings that stand shoulder to shoulder across narrow cobbled streets, are more reminiscent of Naples.
Typically French are the high-rise city housing projects clustered around the northern edges of the city. It is here over the years that Toulon has relegated most of the 20 percent of the population who are immigrants or people of North African origin, leaving many to flounder in the urban problems of unemployment, vandalism and drug abuse and creating the sense of menace the National Front says it can root out by dealing harshly with immigrants.
"We are the real victims," said Rezzouz Boubaker, a dark-skinned, curly-haired 24-year-old whose parents immigrated from Algeria before he was born and now lives in one of these graffiti-scarred projects in the hills called Le Guynemer.
"It wasn't the National Front that made these places into ghettos for immigrants and the poor, and did a bad job educating them," Mr. Boubaker said. "Previous city administrations did that over decades and threw money away on huge projects like a big convention center downtown that is now mostly bankrupt. The voters got fed up, and now we're the scapegoats."
Mr. Le Chevallier, 58, looking reassuringly middle-class in a blue blazer and blue-and-yellow rep tie, said in an interview in his office in City Hall that he had trouble understanding what all the fuss was about.
He couldn't start expelling illegal foreign immigrants or making good on campaign promises to give preference to French natives for municipal housing and jobs even if he wanted to, he said, because the French Constitution forbade such things. As an elected official rather than a candidate, he was bound to obey the law.
Why did he think the National Front did so well in Toulon? "We have 20 percent unemployment, an accumulated debt of $2,600 for every man, woman and child in the city, and a history of corruption among the people who ran this city for 36 years," Mr. Le Chevallier said.
Maurice Arreckx, a leading figure in the conservative party that Mr. Le Chevallier defeated in June, stands accused of bribery in one of the myriad corruption cases that have discredited establishment politics in much of the Riviera in recent years.
"We are trying to straighten out the city finances and reduce local taxes, but the reality is that we can't make preferred treatment for the French a centerpiece of policy," Mr. Le Chevallier said. "But one thing we can do is hire more police to make the city safer at night."
City police officers supplement the more numerous French national police, who answer to nonelected administrative authorities. Mr. Le Chevallier wants to increase the local force from 20 to 70 by this fall.
Mr. Boubaker, whose dark skin makes him a target for frequent police identity checks in these days of nervousness about illegal immigration and Islamic fundamentalist terrorism from North Africa, said more police officers on the streets would make him feel less secure, not more. He and 150 other young people have formed an association called "Toulon Is Us, Too," not only to keep close tabs on what the National Front does in Toulon but also to send a message to France that a Mayor whom 37 percent of the voters elected should not brand the rest as pariahs.
They acted after well-known artists like the singer Patrick Bruel refused to perform in Toulon, Nice, Marignane, Orange and other cities that elected far-right mayors.
Gerard Paquet, director of an annual dance festival at Chateauvallon in the hills near Toulon, said he thought it was better to stay and fight, though he said he would reject a $1 million annual subsidy from the city of Toulon now that Mr. Le Chevallier was Mayor.
"What the entire world is going through today is not just an economic crisis, but the transition from one era to another, one in which there are global transfers of money, goods, technology and information," he said.
"People are baffled and confused," he said, "and what they need is a political and cultural response that gives them the hope of a better world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The parents of Rezzouz Boubaker, left, came to France from Algeria before he was born. He talked with children of the Toulon housing complex where he now lives. "We are the real victims," he said of immigrants. (Boris Horvat for The New York Times)
 
Map of France showing location of Toulon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (95%); NORTHERN AFRICA (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FRONT PARTY (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FRONT PARTY (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; TOULON (FRANCE); FRANCE (95%); NORTHERN AFRICA (93%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); ELECTIONS (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); GRAFFITI (74%); FAMILY (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CRIME RATES (69%); VANDALISM (64%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; LE CHEVALLIER, JEAN-MARIE (MAYOR) JEAN-MARIE LE CHEVALLIER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995



483 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Fed Committee Gave Greenspan Discretion to Cut Rates

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 25

 BODY:
In a strong sign that the Federal Reserve may lower interest rates in the coming months, the Fed disclosed today that its top policy committee had authorized its chairman to reduce short-term interest rates at his discretion this summer.
 The authority granted by the committee on July 6, although not exercised, was the latest of several signs that interest rates could be reduced this fall, which would allow millions of Americans to save money on everything from car loans to adjustable-rate mortgages. Lower rates this fall would also tend to fuel economic growth next year, probably helping President Clinton's bid for re-election and Democratic efforts to regain control of the House of Representatives and the Senate. 
 The Commerce Department reported on Thursday that orders for durable goods, like cars and washing machines, dropped sharply last month. The decline puts pressure on the central bank to lower rates and stimulate the economy. And the Bundesbank, the central bank of Germany, reduced short-term interest rates there by half a percentage point on Thursday, making it less attractive to invest in Germany and more attractive to buy dollars to invest in the United States, where rates are still relatively high.
 The minutes from the meeting on July 5 and 6 of the policy group, the Federal Open Market Committee, were released today. They show that the central bank's officials were then reluctant to cut interest rates quickly, for fear that it would hurt the value of the dollar in currency markets. But the dollar has since surged against the German mark and the Japanese yen, giving the Fed more leeway to cut rates this fall, possibly at the policy committee's next meeting on Sept. 26.
 The minutes also showed that most members saw inflation as under control, a view that might make them more willing to reduce interest rates in the coming months.
 When the committee voted to reduce short-term rates by a quarter of a percentage point on July 6, a decision it announced, it also secretly granted Alan Greenspan, its chairman, the explicit discretion to push rates even lower, according to the minutes.
 While Mr. Greenspan did not choose to exercise this authority, the committee's decision to grant it suggests that he may still have the power to reduce rates following another meeting of the panel last Tuesday.
 "If they did in July, I certainly would think they have done that in this meeting as well, and Chairman Greenspan may choose to exercise that before the Sept. 26 meeting," said Sung W. Sohn, a senior vice president and chief economist at the Norwest Corporation, a bank holding company in Minneapolis.
 The committee did not move rates at the meeting on Tuesday.
 The apparent health of the economy has improved since the July meeting. Retail sales and industrial production have steadied after their declines last spring, and the Commerce Department has revised upward some of its gloomiest economic statistics from early summer. That could weaken the Federal Reserve's interest in cutting rates to stimulate the economy.
 But the minutes also showed a concern that short-term interest rates were unusually high compared with the inflation rate. The minutes appeared to indicate room for further reductions in the target for the Federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans and which the Federal Reserve controls indirectly.
 As expected, the minutes also indicated some disagreement within the Federal Open Market Committee over how much to cut rates.
 Thomas M. Hoenig, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank in Kansas City, Mo., cast a dissenting vote against any reduction in interest rates, contending that inflation was still a risk. But he was outvoted by the other four regional Federal Reserve bank presidents along with the six sitting Federal Reserve Board governors. There is one vacancy on the board.
 Some members, not identified in the minutes, also expressed support for a larger immediate cut in rates, only to vote for the final compromise.
 Mr. Greenspan has the implicit discretion to cut rates between meetings of the committee, even without a vote to give him the explicit authority. He did so on April 18, 1994, raising the Federal funds rate by a quarter of a percentage point. But he has shown a preference for acting when the committee meets, and its votes to lean toward lower rates often indicate the direction of future policy.
 Paul L. Kasriel, a vice president and monetary economist at the Northern Trust Company, a Chicago bank, predicted that Government figures for unemployment and retail sales in August would be influential as Mr. Greenspan decided when and whether to reduce rates further. The Labor Department is scheduled to release the unemployment figures next Friday, while the Commerce Department will announce retail sales levels on Sept. 14.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INTEREST RATES (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); DURABLE GOODS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); GERMAN MARK (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995



484 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS: The Gold in Latin Skies;
South of the Border, U.S. Airlines Ride a Travel Boom

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO

 BODY:
The last five years have been unkind to United States airlines. But not in Latin America.
 Air travel is booming south of the border, and heavy investments by American Airlines, United Airlines and Continental Airlines are paying off well. The three carriers have grabbed $1 billion a year in annual business from weaker Latin American airlines, according to one estimate. 
 United States carriers fly more international passengers north to south than across the Atlantic or the Pacific. Between 1989 and 1993 alone, these airlines saw a 27 percent increase in traffic between the United States and Latin America, including the Caribbean.
 "For U.S. airlines, Latin America has now become the most important route area," the International Air Transport Association reported recently.
 The surge has coincided with an embrace of free markets in Latin America that has spurred economic growth in many countries and brought new business opportunities to the region.
 The increased activity has also contributed to a boom in hotel construction in Latin America. More important, it has forced Latin American airlines to make their own wrenching changes to meet the competitive challenge from the north. Six years ago, for example, most big Latin airlines were state-owned; today, almost none are.
 Despite those efforts, though, the United States carriers should bolster their share of the region's north-south traffic from 56 percent today to 73 percent by 2010, according to a report by the association.
 Even Mexico's sharp economic downturn this year has had a silver lining for United States airlines. With a heavily devalued peso, Mexico suddenly became a more inexpensive travel destination for Americans. "While business destinations are declining, beach destinations are increasing," said Peggy Mahoney, a spokeswoman for Continental Airlines, which flies to eight Mexican cities, the most of any United States carrier.
 The Federal Aviation Administration predicts that over the next 10 years, Latin America will widen its margin over Europe and Asia as the largest passenger market for United States carriers. But in revenue, Asian and European routes will remain larger than Latin America's. Almost 90 percent of traffic on United States carriers to Latin America is on relatively short routes to Mexico, the Caribbean and Central America.
 The push into Latin America started in 1990, when the two largest United States carriers, American and United, bought routes from two failing airlines, Eastern and Pan American.
 After doubling its Latin traffic in five years, American, a unit of the AMR Corporation, is now the region's largest carrier. It accounts for about half of the passengers going through Miami International Airport, where it plans to start construction later this year on a new $1 billion, 47-gate terminal. Miami and San Juan, P.R., are American's hubs for much of its service to Latin America and the Caribbean.
 "American is pouring money into the region," said Robert C. Booth, the president of Aviation Management Services of Miami, who is a consultant to Latin American airlines. He estimated that American earned $200 million on revenue of $2 billion on its Latin American routes last year, offsetting losses elsewhere and helping put AMR in the black. AMR, which made a profit of $228 million last year on revenue of $16.1 billion, declined to comment on these figures.
 But only five years after American started flying to Brazil, the airline expects this year to overtake Varig, Brazil's largest airline, for the largest share of the United States-Brazil market.
 "The most profitable flying we do is to deep South America -- Argentina, Brazil and Chile," said Robert A. Britton, American's managing director for international planning.
 American's route from here to Dallas-Fort Worth, for example, became one of the airline's 10 most profitable only weeks after the service started in May. Mr. Booth estimated that American's frequent-flier program now has a million members in Latin America.
 In 1992, United Airlines, a unit of the UAL Corporation, reactivated a Latin route system purchased from Pan American. Now, "Brazil is one of the 10 most profitable destinations for the company," said Maria A. Sastre, United's vice president for Latin America. "In our frequent-traveler program, Latin America had the fastest growth rate of our international markets last year."
 Continental, the leading United States carrier to Mexico and Central America, expanded into South America in the early 1990's. Having added Colombia and Ecuador to its routes, Continental now wants to fly to Peru.
 "Latin America is definitely a growing area for us," said Louis R. Ramery, Continental's vice president for Latin America. The carrier, based in Houston, this year expanded its frequent-flier program to Latin America, added Latin-style foods to its menus and hired more Spanish-speaking flight attendants.
 The strong United States challenge has shaken up Latin America's air industry. "All of a sudden you have monster competitors," said Mr. Booth, who has advised Latin governments on privatization strategies.
 "In 1989, two-thirds of Latin America's 35 major international airlines were government-owned; today, only 2 are," he said. The region's last two major state airlines, Ecuatoriana of Ecuador and LAB of Bolivia, are to be privatized by next month.
 Seeking to create economies of scale, Latin American airlines are linking ticketing, reservations and frequent-flier plans. Last January, 14 of the carriers introduced Latinpass, a regional frequent-traveler program.
 Latin American complaints about the growth of the United States carriers in the region have been partly muted by the fact that most boats are rising with the region's economic expansion. After years of losses, Brazil's three largest airlines -- Varig, VASP and Transbrasil -- all made money in 1994.
 In only a decade, the number of Brazilians visiting the United States has nearly quadrupled, to an estimated 745,000 this year. According to the United States Travel and Tourism Administration, Brazilians are the second-fastest-growing group of tourists to the United States, after South Koreans.
 The region's airlines are also finding that American-style deregulation leads to more business. Five years ago, for example, the Andean nations jettisoned decades of protectionism and adopted a regional open-skies policy. Since then, the weekly number of flights linking the capitals of Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru has jumped to 172 from 72.
 During the 1990's, about 50 domestic airlines have been formed in Latin America. One new company, Aero Sur of Bolivia, flies to 12 cities that never had scheduled service. While some new companies have failed, many have thrived, helping to bolster air travel within the region by 37 percent last year.
 The Latin American air travel boom has caught the eye of foreign hotel operators. Hilton, Holiday Inn, ITT Sheraton and Inter-Continental, which is a unit of Seiyu Ltd., are investing billions of dollars in hotel construction.
 From Mexico to Brazil, Holiday Inn, a unit of Bass P.L.C., plans to open 23 hotels over the next two years. Hilton is building five hotels in Latin America, increasing its regional presence by 50 percent. Caesar Park, a luxury chain owned by the Aoki Corporation of Japan, is building seven hotels in Brazil.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Passengers waited in line on Thursday at Miami International Airport before boarding an American Airlines flight to Maracaibo, Venezuela. (Source: Cindy Carp fort The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Overseas Traffic" shows number of passengers flying from the United States to regions south of the border, to europe and to the Far East on United States carriers from 1989-1993. (Source: Department of Transportation)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (94%); EUROPE (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; UNITED AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); AMR CORP (84%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC; UNITED AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (94%); EUROPE (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (88%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (67%); DEVALUATION (64%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995



485 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Technology Stocks Decline, But Dow Still Gains 20.78

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday, led by banking and insurance companies, after Warren E. Buffett's investment company said it would buy the rest of the Geico Corporation for $2.3 billion. The advance came despite a decline in technology stocks.
 The gains were also fueled by a two-day rally in bonds, which pushed yields to their lowest level in six weeks. Besides making returns from stocks more attractive than bonds, the lower yields point to lower interest rates and thus lower borrowing costs. The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell to 6.70 percent yesterday from 6.81 percent on Thursday. 
 "Part of the impetus behind the stock market rally has been falling yields," said Steven Goldman, market strategist at Weeden & Company. "As bonds continue to rise stocks will break out" of their 3 percent slump of the last six weeks.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 20.78 points, to 4,601.40, its biggest gain in almost two weeks. For the week, the average slipped 16.20 points.
 The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 2.64 points, to reach 560.10, also its biggest advance in almost two weeks.
 Declines in computer-related shares pushed the Nasdaq composite index to its second-consecutive loss, falling 0.96 to 1,019.97.
 Some 1,291 stocks gained and 863 declined on the New York Stock Exchange. Trading was light, with about 256 million shares trading hands, compared with this year's average of 337.2 million.
 Shares of insurance companies rose after Berkshire Hathaway Inc., which is controlled by the much watched Mr. Buffett, offered to buy the 49 percent of Geico that it does not already own for $2.3 billion in cash, or $70 a share. Shares of Geico jumped 12 7/8, to 68 5/8. Berkshire Hathaway shares surged 600, to 25,400.
 Shares of American International Group rose 2, to 78 3/4 and the Chubb Corporation's stock gained 2 1/8, to 90 1/2.
 The fall in interest rates also bolstered insurers' shares, as well as those of banking companies. J. P. Morgan rose 1 1/4, to 71 7/8. Bank of New York shares gained 1 1/4, to 41 1/8, and Chase Manhattan climbed 1 1/8, to 53.
 Banks earn more when rates decline because of the widening difference between the rate banks pay for money and what they lend it out at.
 Shares of Walt Disney reversed a two-day decline, adding 5/8, to 56 3/4, after the company said it would wrap up at least $5 billion in bank financing for its acquisition of Capital Cities/ABC Inc. in two to three weeks.
 Technology shares, which had surged this summer, sagged again on profit taking.
 In addition, the optimism that followed the release of the Windows 95 software by the Microsoft Corporation's has cooled on concerns that the product may not set off a boom in sales of computer products.
 Microsoft shares slipped for a third consecutive day, losing 1 3/4, to 94 3/8. I.B.M. was also one of the biggest decliners, falling 1, to 103 7/8.
 Intelligent Electronics Inc., a personal computer distributor, slumped 1 7/8, to 9 5/8. The company said it expected to report a second-quarter loss largely because of inventory-related charges.
 Earlier in Japan, stocks ended lower, dragged down by declines in pharmaceutical and tobacco companies. The Nikkei index of 225 issues fell 151.31 points, or eight-tenths of 1 percent, to 17,770.68.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (85%); BRK.A (NYSE) (85%); AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%); CB (NYSE) (63%); BK (NYSE) (58%); DIS (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (85%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (85%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (85%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (60%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (60%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (85%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (85%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%); CHUBB CORP (63%); ABC INC (60%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); WEEDEN & CO LP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); WALT DISNEY CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); BONDS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); 

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995



486 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Cleveland Robinson, 80, Civil-Rights Advocate

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Cleveland Robinson, a veteran labor official and civil-rights advocate, died on Wednesday at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine's hospital in the Bronx. A resident of the Bronx, he was 80.
The cause was kidney failure, his family said. 
 A former adviser on labor to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and his Southern Christian Leadership Conference, Mr. Robinson was chairman of the New York State Martin Luther King Jr. Commission at his death.
The commission plans observances for Dr. King's birthday, an official holiday marked on the third Monday in January, and it promotes educational programs on civil rights and nonviolent social change. It was formed by the Legislature in 1985 with Harry Belafonte as its chairman; Mr. Robinson, the founding vice chairman, succeeded him two years ago.
Mr. Robinson was the administrative chairman of the March on Washington in August 1963. At the time, he was also a member of the New York City Commission on Human Rights. Mr. Robinson was associated with the commission during the administrations of Robert F. Wagner and John V. Lindsay.
In the labor movement, he was associated with the Negro American Labor Council, first as vice president and later as president. That body took up the struggle to get minority representation in the leadership of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations and its constituent unions. Working within the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the council sought to bring the economic strength of black union workers to bear.
From 1952 until his retirement in 1992, Mr. Robinson led District 65 and its some 30,000 members in small shops and department stores in New York City. The organization was affiliated with the Retail, Wholesale and Department Stores Employees Union until 1969.
District 65 later affiliated with the United Auto Workers. It dissolved in 1992 when Mr. Robinson retired as secretary-treasurer and the district's workers reorganized into 10 locals of the U.A.W.
Cleveland Lowellyn Robinson was born in Swabys Hope, a rural parish of Manchester, Jamaica, and immigrated to the United States in 1944.
Two years later, he unionized a Manhattan dry goods store where he worked. In 1947, he joined the staff of District 65 as an organizer. He was elected vice president in 1950 and secretary-treasurer in 1952.
Through the years, Mr. Robinson became a vocal opponent of apartheid in South Africa. In 1990, he was co-chairman for the official visit of Nelson Mandela to New York.
He is survived by his wife of 18 years, Doreen McPherson Robinson; two sons, Winston of West Hempstead, L.I., and Noel of the Bronx; a daughter, Barbara Stuart of Boston; a sister, Myra Sinclair of the Bronx, and six grandchildren. His first wife, Susan Jenkins Robinson, died in 1976.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cleveland Robinson (1963)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); JAMAICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: CLEVELAND ROBINSON (64%); CLEVELAND LOWELLYN ROBINSON (63%); AFL-CIO (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); JAMAICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); CIVIL RIGHTS (93%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); RETAILERS (86%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: ROBINSON, CLEVELAND; SAXON, WOLFGANG MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995



487 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Existing Homes Show Strength, Jumping 5% in July

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 25

 BODY:
Aided by lower mortgage rates, sales of existing homes surged 5 percent in July to their highest annual rate in more than a year, an industry group said today.
 Analysts warned, however, that the housing market's strength might have peaked. 
 The group, the National Association of Realtors, said sales of previously owned homes rose to an annual rate of 3.99 million units last month, the highest rate since June 1994. A survey of economists had produced an estimate that today's report would show an increase of only 1.6 percent.
 Home resales have risen for three consecutive months. June's increase was revised upward today to 7 percent from the 6.5 percent reported originally.
 Sales of previously occupied homes account for about 85 percent of all home sales in the country. Resales last month rose in all regions except the Midwest.
 But analysts said they did not expect the strength to continue. They said the July surge was more a response to falling mortgage rates than a sign of economic strength or improved confidence among potential home buyers.
 "We're close to a near-term top," said Carl Palash, chief economist at MCM Money Watch in New York. "The strength we see in July is a response to the drop in mortgage rates in late spring."
 "The evidence we have," he added, "shows mortgage applications have peaked" in response to higher rates in recent weeks.
 Tim McGee, chief economist with Tokai Bank in New York, said the recent rise in mortgage rates meant that "a few months from now, we should start to see things cool back down."
 As the economy slowed in the first half of the year, mortgage rates declined. The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage fell as low as 7.41 percent in mid-July after running as high as 9.25 percent in December. Rates have since risen from that low on some signs that the economy has regained momentum.
The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan for all of last month rose to 7.61 percent from 7.57 percent in June. That put the average monthly payment on a $100,000 loan at about $707 during July, up from $704 in June -- but still lower than the average payment of $822.68 when rates peaked in mid-December.
 Some of the home buyers who closed on the deals during July obtained mortgage commitments at lower rates earlier in the year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); TOKAI BANK CANADA (54%); TOKAI BANK EUROPE LTD (54%); TOKAI BANK SCHWEIZ AG (54%); TOKAI BANK EUROPE PLC (54%); TOKAI BANK LTD (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES EXISTING HOME SALES (95%); REAL ESTATE (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995



488 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: The Road Not Taken

BYLINE: By Randy M. Mastro; Randy M. Mastro, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's chief of staff, was among the Federal lawyers who defended the Westway project.

 BODY:
It is hard to believe that the Westway highway and development project, which died 10 years ago next month, was New York City's last grand dream for its future. It was an urban renewal project the likes of which cities have rarely seen. It is high time that we dare to dream again -- of development on Manhattan's West Side overlooking miles of parks lining the Hudson River.
Originally, the Federal Government was prepared to foot Westway's $2.3 billion bill. New York planned to build a new highway, much of it underground, along the West Side and to revitalize the Hudson River waterfront with nearly 100 acres of parks and related development. 
 The story of how that breathtaking opportunity was squandered should serve as a hard lesson. An eclectic group of opponents that included environmentalists, New Jersey politicians and West Village residents persuaded a Federal judge to block Westway because it would have demolished already crumbling piers that allegedly served as "rest stops" for striped bass migrating down the Hudson River.
By September 1985, with the project still in litigation and Congress poised to strip New York of money for what opponents labeled a "boondoggle," Gov. Mario Cuomo and Mayor Edward Koch decided to abandon Westway and exercise a "trade-in" option that gave the city approximately $1 billion in mass transportation financing instead.
The alliance that killed Westway 10 years ago has blocked every alternative proposed since then for the West Side. The efforts of the Hudson River Park Conservancy, a joint city-state entity that is committed to spending $100 million on riverfront park development, have been constantly stymied by litigation. Sadly, the waterfront remains a painful symbol of New York's lack of vision and resolve.
During this same period, other places have made substantial progress in realizing their big projects. For example, Boston is proceeding with its Central Artery project, an $8 billion, federally financed highway and downtown development plan. And New Jersey, which has helped developers pursue more than two dozen commercial and residential projects along the Hudson's waterfront, has now committed $1.3 billion to a 21.5-mile light-rail system along the state's northeast shoreline.
Here in New York City, we can still realize the dream of urban renewal, if we take the following steps:
1. Adopt a specific, comprehensive plan to address the city's needs on the West Side of Manhattan -- and then stick with the plan. Westway's opponents want nothing done, and for over a decade they have succeeded.
Westway was a state project. Any new, comparable effort will therefore require the full support of the Pataki administration. In 1985, the state set aside more than $800 million in Federal and state funds for a more modest roadway and development. While much of that money has since been spent on other initiatives, state officials recently reiterated their commitment to such a project.
2. Focus attention on the nearly 600 miles of city waterfront that are available to us for recreation and development. The Giuliani Administration had the Department of City Planning survey the entire waterfront for the first time. Its report is a blueprint for change.
3. Increase the city's return on available Federal and state financing. The Giuliani administration has already established teams to work with city agencies and community organizations to apply for Federal and state funds. While we cannot realistically expect money for another Westway, we can try to insure that we get our fair share.
4. Recapture the vision that has spurred the city's most enduring developments. We cannot hope to build a greater New York unless we can envision projects as grand as Westway and overcome our sometimes irrational fear of change. Those who supported Westway must continue the fight to achieve their goals.
It is time to end the traffic congestion and urban decay that mar Manhattan's West Side. The legacy of Westway should be the realization of that dream.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HUDSON RIVER; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); LITIGATION (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); 

PERSON: MASTRO, RANDY M; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) EDWARD IRWIN 'ED' KOCH (55%); MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995



489 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: Beijing Government Never Ruled Taiwan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Bullying Taiwan" (editorial, Aug. 22) lays out the true origin of the crisis in relations between the United States and the People's Republic of China: the P.R.C.'s military posturing to block the Republic of China on Taiwan from achieving a proper place in the international community. 
 However, it is misleading to state that Taiwan has been ruled by Beijing for "four years in the last century." I believe this refers to the period 1945-49, when Taiwan was under the sovereignty of the R.O.C. Government while it was still based on the mainland (with Nanking as the capital). In 1949 the R.O.C. Government was removed to Taiwan and for the last 46 years has continued to exercise authority over Taiwan.
 
PAI YUN-FENG
Director, Information Division
Taipei Economic and Cultural Office
New York, Aug. 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (98%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; TAIWAN (98%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1995



490 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER 

 BODY:

A STRANGER IN THIS WORLD
 By Kevin Canty. Vintage Contemporaries, $10.
Many of the characters in these 10 stories act impulsively, letting their futures melt away in the heat of a moment. In 1994 our reviewer, Catherine Bush, called this collection a "superb debut," offering "sharp, distilled intelligence, mingling recognition with surprise."
 

A JOURNEY THROUGH ECONOMIC TIME: A Firsthand View
 By John Kenneth Galbraith. Houghton Mifflin, $11.95.
The author has directly observed most of the 20th century, and he traces it here, noting the influence of events on world markets. Continuing his reputation as an iconoclast, he believes in both internationalism and the salutary effects of government on economic inequities. Mr. Galbraith is "destined to endure long after his peevish peers have faded from footnote status," Alan Abelson said in these pages last year, praising this work as "a first-rate book and a rewarding one." Houghton Mifflin has also reissued Mr. Galbraith's MONEY: Whence It Came, Where It Went ($13.95), first published in 1975. This revised edition incorporates discussion of the economic policies of the Carter, Reagan and Clinton Administrations. While disagreeing with many of Mr. Galbraith's conclusions, our reviewer, Eugene D. Genovese, commented that the author "has admirably demonstrated that respect for the English language provides everything necessary to demystify economics." THE SOCIAL MEANING OF MONEY, by Viviana A. Zelizer (Basic Books, $14), was reviewed here last year by Mr. Galbraith. Examining the forms that currency has taken and the means employed to control it, her study is "an interesting and informative book," he said.
 
THE SILENT ANGEL
By Heinrich Boll. Translated by Breon Mitchell.
Picador USA, $12.
 This is the Nobel Prize-winning author's first novel, rejected by German publishers in 1950 and only published in his native country posthumously in 1992. It focuses on a German soldier who exchanges his coat with that of a man facing execution, and then must rebuild his own identity in the ruins of postwar Cologne. It is "a rich novel, one still pertinent to our own hunger for the bread of meaning," Peter Filkins said in the Book Review in 1994. Another writer's first novel has also been rescued from obscurity. TESTIMONIES, by Patrick O'Brian (Norton, $11), has nothing to do with the seafaring life the author has made famous in his Aubrey-and-Maturin fiction. It is the tale of an Oxford don who falls in love with a married farm woman in Wales. Writing in The New York Times in 1952, Pearl Kazin described it as "rare and beautiful . . . never faltering in the unobtrusive skill of its poetry."
 
WHO WE ARE: A Portrait of America Based on the Latest U.S. Census
By Sam Roberts. Times Books/Random House, $13.
 This analysis reveals some surprising facts, among them that Hoboken, N.J., is the nation's most densely populated community and that three-quarters of adults 25 and over have finished high school. Written by an editor at The New York Times who was formerly the paper's urban affairs columnist, it employs "a style that is always professional, at times buoyant and even jaunty," Cullen Murphy said here last year.
 
CHINA WHITE
By Peter Maas. Pinnacle, $5.99.
 The title refers to an extremely pure form of heroin exported from Asia to the United States. Tom MacLean, a former prosecutor turned attorney, and Shannon O'Shea, a former nun turned F.B.I. agent, follow its trail. In 1994 our reviewer, Robert Nathan, observed that the author's first thriller "proves once again there is little he cannot achieve with the written word."
 
RAISING THE DEAD
By Richard Selzer. Penguin, $9.95.
 The author, a former surgeon, developed Legionnaires' disease in 1991 and was pronounced dead, only to inexplicably revive 10 minutes later. "What is most remarkable about 'Raising the Dead' is the foray it makes into uncharted autobiographical territory," Michael Vincent Miller said here in 1994.
 
THE DEVIL'S OWN WORK
By Alan Judd. Vintage, $9.
 Satan infiltrates literary circles as a young British author unwittingly makes a Faustian pact: As long as he keeps a mysterious ancient manuscript close by, he writes badly but successfully. Mr. Judd "has availed himself of a wealth of culturally charged energy," Robert Grudin wrote in the Book Review in 1994.
 
INTERVENTION! The United States and the Mexican
Revolution, 1913-1917
By John S. D. Eisenhower. Norton, $14.
 President Woodrow Wilson was all too ready to invade Mexico, the author argues, but once there, he faced ever-changing regimes and friends who turned out to be foes. This is a "good narrative history," Edward M. Coffman said in these pages last year, that "could well serve as cautionary reading for policy makers today." Contemporary conditions are explored in MEXICAN LIVES, by Judith Adler Hellman (New Press, $11.95), which consists of interviews conducted with 15 people, from a magnate to a maid. In 1994 our reviewer, Martha Brandt, wrote that the book "goes a long way toward explaining why a country where burros share the streets with luxury cars will not speed into modernity."
 
LAST GO ROUND
By Ken Kesey with Ken Babbs. Penguin, $10.95.
 The scene is the Wild West, where a 17-year-old country boy, a black bronco buster and a Nez Perce Indian battle for the first world championship as cowboys. In this fictional re-creation of a 1911 event, "the most striking thing Mr. Kesey has done is to use the dime-novel formula to deal with issues of race," Janet Burroway said here last year. LAUREL GRAEBER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); WALES (77%); GERMANY (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WALES (77%); GERMANY (68%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LITERATURE (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLISHING (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); POETRY (71%); 

PERSON: GRAEBER, LAUREL RONALD REAGAN (72%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



491 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 15; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: The Rise of the House of Tsutsumi

BYLINE: By David E. Sanger; David E. Sanger, a former chief of The New York Times's Tokyo bureau, covers economic policy from Washington.

 BODY:

THE BROTHERS
The Hidden World of Japan's Richest Family.
By Lesley Downer.
418 pp. New York:
Random House. $25. 
 ON Oct. 14, 1947, fortunes of unimaginable size were won and lost in Japan. That was the day Japan's landholders -- princes and descendants of the samurai, small landlords and the giant zaibatsu conglomerates -- were forced to pay a huge wealth tax that Gen. Douglas MacArthur had imposed in hopes of turning occupied Japan into a more egalitarian society.
The days leading up to the deadline were a time of great chaos, enormous opportunity and spectacularly bad business decisions, as landholders raced to dump their properties. Junnosuke Ofusa, who was the office manager of The New York Times's Tokyo bureau for five decades, loved to tell the story of sending a cable to the paper's foreign desk in New York seeking permission to buy, for a pittance, a huge office block in the middle of the Ginza in downtown Tokyo. Now, of course, that is among the most expensive pieces of real estate in the world, and Ofusa used to double over with laughter remembering the one-line response he received from the home office: "We're not in the damn real estate business."
Yasuhiro Tsutsumi was in the real estate business, among many other businesses, and that October he laid the foundation for a fortune that would make the Rockefellers and the Trumps look like pikers. Never a man to think small, this peasant son of a broken home approached the just-disenfranchised members of the royal family and volunteered to let them live out their lives in their palaces if they would sell their vast properties to him. His crafty dealings with princes whose hands had never been soiled by yen were only one example of Tsutsumi's brash and often crass style. Eventually those palaces became the ubiquitous Prince hotels -- no Japanese city is without one -- and the start of a fortune whose true bounds no one can define, not even Japan's tax collectors.
That fortune has made Tsutsumi and his reclusive multibillionaire sons a subject of endless fascination in Japan. Lesley Downer, a British journalist who lives in Tokyo and London, has succeeded in breaking a conspiracy of silence surrounding the Tsutsumis, and she has written a gripping book. "The Brothers: The Hidden World of Japan's Richest Family" is overflowing with tales that Japanese know in snatches, and Americans know not at all.
You cannot step into Japan without running headlong into the Tsutsumi empire: it owns many of the private railways, the best ski and resort areas, the famed Seibu department stores (which are art galleries and cultural centers as well as temples of commerce), the Seibu Lions baseball team and a raft of other businesses. But it is rare to run into the Tsu tsumis themselves; they have a passion for privacy.
The brothers of the title are Yasuhiro's sons -- or more specifically a legitimate son and a son by one of his many mistresses -- who, needless to say, have nothing in common and cannot stand each other. But the book is at its best talking about Yasuhiro himself, a man whose financial prowess was exceeded only by his enormous sexual appetites. (Japan's landscape is littered with potential heirs to the fortune, and Ms. Downer recounts the stories of a few of the disinherited, who are living in modest apartment blocks on the outskirts of Tokyo, coming to terms with the wealth they have never seen.)
Yasuhiro Tsutsumi was a man of enormous tempers and passions, ruthless in his maneuvering to break into Japan's monopolistic system -- designed to keep out newcomers, not just foreigners -- and constantly battling with the Goto family, who ran the rival Tokyu retailing and real estate empire. When the patriarch of the Goto family died, Tsutsumi called a press conference and declared, "In all the world there's never been anything more cheering than the death of this evil man!" So much for Japanese subtlety and respect for the dead.
 TSUTSUMI was also a central figure in the first post-occupation governments, and served as Speaker of the House in the tumultuous days when Japan was fighting off Communism. Naturally, he used his political connections for business advantage, and the hidden world of those connections -- which flowed down to the sons -- is one that readers would probably like to learn more about.
Today Tsutsumi is still considered a god within his empire, and every evening at 5:30, on a rotating basis, employees of his business group are sent to ring the bell at his grave site in Kamakura, an ancient capital south of Tokyo, and provide his spirit with company for the night. His death in 1964 touched off a struggle that was largely won by his son Yoshiaki, a man in his father's mold, who has used his fortune -- $9 billion to $22 billion, depending on whose estimates one believes -- to become one of the most powerful behind-the-scenes manipulators on the Japanese political scene, the subject of endless conspiracy theories.
But it is his half brother Seiji, in many ways the most fascinating member of the family, who has captured the Japanese imagination. In his youth he was a rebel, active in the Communist movement at the University of Tokyo. His father never forgave him. He was handed off the smallest and least interesting part of the business, the department stores, and turned them into symbols of the new Japan -- artsy, flamboyant, international, places to buy everything from traditional pottery to a Jeep Cherokee.
Though Ms. Downer recounts Seiji's rebellion against the family in the late 1940's, when he helped lead the Communist student movement, she leaves readers wondering what prompted his pendulum swing to the other side of the political spectrum. Today he is best known in Japan for his poetry and his autobiographical novels, "In the Season of Roaming" and "A Spring Like Any Other," whose thinly disguised characters have, until now, provided the primary insights into the intrigue inside the giant Tsutsumi compound in Tokyo, where wives, mistresses and children vie with one another.
The question in recession-racked Japan is what will happen to the house Yasuhiro built. Yoshiaki was battered by the deflation in land prices and by a transparent effort to turn the forthcoming Winter Olympics in Nagoya into an opportunity to enlarge his fortune. After some failed investments abroad, Seiji has retreated to the world of literature. There are no clear heirs and, more important, there is no one with the vision that two generations brought to the rebuilding of Japan.
By the way, don't worry about Junnosuke Ofusa, the recipient of that intemperate cable. When it came to his own affairs, he was wise enough not to take his business advice from journalists. He invested a few yen in a modest wooden house behind the famed Okura Hotel, but unlike the Tsutsumi family, he realized that the boom of the late 80's was more frenzy than reality, and he sold at the market's peak. His tiny house still stands, in the shadow of some Tsutsumi properties, and when he died last year he left a tidy fortune for his family.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At top, Yasuhiro Tsutsumi, tycoon and patriarch, in 1961. His principal successors are his sons Seiji, left, and Yoshiaki. (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BROTHERS, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: SEIBU DEPARTMENT STORES LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FAMILY (78%); BRITISH ROYALTY (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); WRITERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BASEBALL (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); LITERATURE (60%); SKIING (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; DOWNER, LESLEY YASUHIRO TSUTSUMI (96%); LESLEY DOWNER (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



492 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 6; Page 50; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: THE REAL CHINESE THREAT

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; Nicholas D. Kristof is the Tokyo bureau chief for The New York Times and author of "China Wakes: The Struggle for the Soul of a Rising Power."

 BODY:
ALMOST NO ONE NOTICED, BUT THIS summer the Pentagon drew a line in the sand. Washington committed itself to using American military force, if necessary, to keep international shipping lanes open in the South China Sea.
International, at least, in American eyes. But Beijing's maps put the entire area within China's territorial waters. If a stronger China eventually tries to enforce its national law, which governs shipping in the area, then American forces could be called upon to confront a China that has developed enormously since its troops battled ours to a stalemate in Korea. 
 The underlying problem is the oldest one in diplomacy: how the international community can manage the ambitions of a rising power -- and there has never been a rising power quite like China. It has 1.2 billion people; it has a nuclear arsenal; it has an army of 3.2 million, the world's largest; and now it has what may be the world's fastest-growing military budget.
For now, China's conventional forces are no match for America's. One of my Chinese friends, the son of a general, attended a meeting in which a group of senior Chinese military officials reviewed films of the American air war against Iraq. "They sat around the room, moaning about China's lack of preparation, asking what we could possibly do to modernize," he reported. "I felt like piping up and saying there was one thing we could do: go capitalist."
Yet given the rate at which China is pouring money into its armed forces, the situation may eventually be different. The United States Naval War College conducted computer simulations last year and again this year of battles in Asia between China and the United States in the year 2010. To everyone's surprise, China defeated the United States in both. It is said that the Central Intelligence Agency recently conducted its own simulation of such a battle, set in the year 2005, and China won that, too.
Simulations don't prove anything. Still, China and Vietnam have both showed, in Korea and Vietnam, how much damage even a backward army can do, particularly when fighting on its own turf. And unlike Vietnam, China has nuclear warheads aimed at the United States. (The United States has stopped targeting China with nuclear missiles, but China has refused to stop targeting America.) China is also believed to be developing biological warfare agents.
In Asia, there is now a real fear about what the rise of China will mean. "The immense presence of China is itself a threat -- whether the Chinese are conscious of it or not -- that certainly Japan cannot deal with alone," Morihiro Hosokawa, the former Prime Minister, said recently.
In the United States, the expression "containment" is applied increasingly to China. The Administration's position is that it wants to engage China, rather than contain it, but that if necessary in the future it can switch to a containment policy. "We're not naive," Winston Lord, the Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, told a congressional committee in June. "We cannot predict what kind of power China will be in the 21st century. God forbid, we may have to turn with others to a policy of containment. I would hope not."
In the meantime, there is growing alarm in Washington and other capitals at China's military spending and policies. While most countries in the world have been cutting back, China has raised its published military budget by 75 percent since 1988, after adjusting for inflation. And the published budget vastly understates reality. It does not even include weapons procurement. The real figure is probably something like $20 billion, which, when adjusted for purchasing power, may buy as much as a $100 billion defense budget in the West.
Most disturbing, China is pouring money into those activities that allow it to project power beyond its traditional borders. In particular, it is building a blue-water navy and developing an air-to-air refueling capability. China is also becoming more aggressive in the South China Sea and even in the Indian Ocean -- far from its traditional sphere of influence.
All of this notwithstanding, it would be a mistake to think that China is somehow a ferocious aggressor. It is not. It shows no interest in seizing areas that it never controlled, like Nepal or Indonesia, and its claims to disputed areas like some islands in the South China Sea do have some merit to them. The risk of conflict arises in part because of stirrings of Chinese nationalism. Nobody believes in Communism anymore, so the Communist Party is trying to use nationalism as the new glue. To some extent, it is working. In five years of living and traveling in China, I met innumerable ordinary people who didn't give two yuan for Communism but who argued passionately that China needed to reclaim its territories.
Just a couple of weeks ago, I was chatting with an elderly woman from Shanghai -- not a Communist by any means -- and I asked her what she thought of Mao. "You know what his biggest mistake was?" she asked, and I thought of the Great Leap Forward, which led to the deaths of 30 million people. "It was giving up Mongolia. That's our land, that's part of China! And he allowed Stalin to take it. What we need to do is get Mongolia back."
I can't say that this woman is representative, although I have occasionally heard other Chinese say they want to recover Mongolia, which is now an independent country. But I have heard many Chinese say that they want their navy to control the entire South China Sea, to seize the Diaoyu Islands from Japan, even to recover Taiwan.
Moreover, the likely successor to the present regime in Beijing is not a democracy but a military government. President Jiang Zemin is terrified of a coup d'etat -- he has appeared before military units behind a bulletproof shield. If the generals take over in the years following Deng Xiaoping's death, they may be more aggressive than any Communists.
The placid waters and palm-lined islets of the South China Sea may be the site of Asia's next war. The Government in China refuses to clarify whether it claims the entire South China Sea or just the islands in the sea. But in any case, some of the islands are also claimed by five other countries.
China erected a permanent fortress on a reef near the Philippines earlier this year, leading to a tense confrontation at sea between naval vessels for the two sides. Now Americans are training Philippine naval commandos. And Vietnam and China are jostling each other over rival oil exploration programs, by American oil companies, in the disputed area.
The worst nightmare in Asia is a Chinese invasion of Taiwan. China regards Taiwan as a renegade province, while many Taiwanese now hope for a country of their own. The authorities in Beijing repeatedly warn that they reserve the right to use force to recover Taiwan. China underlined its threats in July when it conducted missile tests in the open sea 80 miles from Taiwan, forcing the closure of fisheries and the diversion of commercial flights. The Taiwan stock market promptly plunged 6.8 percent amid jitters about a Chinese attack.
In any case, the possibility of clashes in the Taiwan Strait may be increasing rather than decreasing. For now, it is not clear that China would win if it attacked Taiwan, but the odds will change as China upgrades its forces. It is impossible to imagine that an island of 20 million could indefinitely defend itself against a country of 1.2 billion.
There is, in short, a potential Chinese threat and that drives the question: How should America deal with it?
The first step is simply to acknowledge that threat and to pay far more attention to China. America also needs to expand conversations with Chinese leaders, even if that means boosting their legitimacy at times. President Clinton has been reluctant to meet with President Jiang because of Chinese human rights abuses and other problems. But it would be more effective to invite Jiang to Washington and have him listen to hundreds of demonstrators screaming outside his hotel all night. This would convey not only America's willingness to discuss problems but also the seriousness with which Americans take China's misconduct.
Washington's aim in such talks should be to promote American interests, and that is not necessarily the same as creating a good relationship with China. There is no reason to provoke a dispute just for the sake of being surly. But the White House has to be willing to risk a dispute when China tests its resolve. For example, China has repeatedly promised not to sell M-11 missiles, which are capable of carrying nuclear warheads, to Pakistan. Each time China makes such a formal pledge, Washington claims credit for a major breakthrough. And each time, China has apparently gone ahead and sold M-11's to Pakistan anyway.
These days, the Administration is reluctant to acknowledge what appears to be the latest sale -- despite satellite evidence and the best judgment of intelligence analysts -- because it is reluctant to worsen relations. The lesson Beijing draws from this is that it can continue violating its pledges as long as it acts greatly offended when someone complains. It would be is better to risk a deeper chill in relations than to keep on backing down.
America also needs to work with Asian countries to apply joint restraints on China. The Asean group of Southeast Asian countries, for example, has become increasingly effective in pressuring China to go slow in the South China Sea. And whatever the risks of confrontation, I think the United States was right to declare its willingness to use military force to escort shipping in the South China Sea. If China were to interfere with those shipping lanes -- blocking the flow of oil to Japan, for example -- the global economy would be thrown into crisis.
Americans also need to use the right historical model. China is not bent on international conquest. Beijing may wish to dominate the region, but it does not wish to raise the Chinese flag over Jakarta or Tokyo. Rather, it is like Germany in the run-up to World War I, yearning for greater importance and testing to see what it can get away with. There could be a major war with China, but if so, it will be because of ignorance and miscalculation -- in substantial part on the western rim of the Pacific.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 27, 1995, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A note identifying the author of an article on page 50 of the Magazine today, about military expansion in China, omits the name of a co-author of the book "China Wakes: The Struggle for the Soul of a Rising Power." The book was written by Nicholas D. Kristof and Sheryl Wu Dunn, not by Mr. Kristof alone.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A pilot in the northwest Chinese desert, where missiles grow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); NAVIES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); MODELING & SIMULATION (63%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (63%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



493 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Travelers Enjoying The Dollar's Comeback

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
It has been an expensive year-and-a-half for Americans traveling abroad. The dollar dropped precipitously in value starting early in 1994, effectively making hotel rooms, restaurants, souvenirs and anything else purchased in a foreign currency costlier. It was not a matter of nickels and dimes, either. In many European nations, for example, the dollar lost more than 20 percent of its value.
But now the dollar is bouncing back, giving American travelers a bit of relief. The dollar has by no means recovered all the ground it lost. By mid-August, though, it was enjoying its strongest gains in years against the other two benchmark international currencies, the Japanese yen and the German mark, and had risen correspondingly against other major currencies as well. 
 On Aug. 18, the dollar was worth around 97 yen, up from just over 80 yen this spring, a gain of more than 20 percent. At the same time, the dollar was worth 1.48 German marks, compared with about 1.38 marks in April, a gain of 7.2 percent.
Because most of the other major European currencies are formally or informally linked in value to the German mark, the dollar also posted gains against them. Against the French franc, for example, the dollar stood at 5.09 French francs, up from 4.79 francs in early April. It cost just over $1.53 to buy a a British pound on August 18, compared with $1.60 in April. (All the rates cited are from trading among banks and investment houses. The actual rates charged to individuals by currency exchanges, hotels, banks and credit card companies are invariably less advantageous.)
Whether the dollar can continue to claw its way back up is hard to tell. In a world in which international finance has become bewilderingly complex and fast-paced, currency movements are among the most difficult trends to predict. The dollar's resurgence could easily accelerate, stall or reverse -- making it difficult for tourists to count on any particular exchange rate when budgeting for a trip.
Still, most signs are that Americans will get more bang for their buck for the rest of the year. One reason is that the world's most economically powerful nations -- the United States, Japan and Germany -- all want it that way. Believing that the dollar had become so weak that it was destabilizing the international economy, they have been instructing their central banks to buy dollars in the currency markets to push its level up toward what they consider a more realistic value. (The central banks never give away their hand to the markets by saying what they think a realistic value should be.)
The economic factors behind the dollar's gyrations of late can be dense and sometimes contradictory. But the effects of a stronger dollar for travelers are clear and simple.
A double room at the Westin Hotel in Tokyo starts at 30,000 yen a night, or 150,000 yen for five nights. At 80 yen to the dollar, the five-night tab would come to $1,875. At 97 yen to the dollar, the bill would be $1,546.39 -- a savings of $328.61.
An unrestricted round-trip coach ticket on the Eurostar train through the Channel Tunnel from Paris to London and back costs 1,290 French francs. At an exchange rate of 4.8 francs to the dollar, that is $268.75. At 5.09 francs, it is $253.44 -- a reduction of $15.31.
Renting a Volkswagen Golf from Avis in Bonn for a week runs about 1,050 marks. At 1.38 marks to the dollar, that equals $760.87. At 1.48 marks to the dollar, the total is $709.46, a savings of $51.41.
The dollar is not universally stronger. In April, a dollar would buy 1,709 Italian lira. On August 18, the dollar was worth 1.631 lira. In Mexico, the dollar was worth 6.33 pesos in April. In mid-August, it was worth 6.17 pesos.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); US DOLLAR (91%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); TRENDS (74%); BRITISH POUND (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CREDIT CARDS (50%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



494 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 5; Page 4; Column 5; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER;
Insurance Rules On Illness Eased

BYLINE: By BETSY WADE 

 BODY:
THE "pre-existing conditions" clause, a bane to consumers who buy trip-cancellation insurance only to find that they cannot collect benefits when they are unable to travel because of illness, appears to be on the way out. Most insurance companies are following the example of Mutual of Omaha, which announced in May that it would waive this restriction for clients who buy their policies immediately on making deposits for tours or cruises.
Trip-cancellation and trip-interruption insurance is important to people who buy expensive cruises or tours, because emergencies, particularly health emergencies, may make it impossible to take a trip that has already been paid for. The old pre-existing conditions clauses generally held that claims to recover payments on the basis of illness of a traveler, a family member or a traveling companion were invalid if the illness "manifested itself" -- or some similar phrase -- in the 60 days before the insurance was bought. Often enough, this meant denial of a claim made, for example, because someone's heart condition flared up. One big company estimated that 6 percent of claims were denied on the ground that the conditions were pre-existing. 
 The Commercial Union Insurance Company in Boston is among those that have dropped the pre-existing conditions clause. It acted last month. Carroll B. Smith, vice president for custom products, said the exclusion of people with pre-existing conditions was a source of misunderstanding and of complaints to state insurance departments. "It is something we have been thinking about for some time," he said, "and when Mutual of Omaha dropped it, it pushed us off the dime."
The companies dropping the pre-existing conditions clause have not raised their prices, but all have set one condition and sometimes more. These are manageable, and the possibility of buying trip-cancellation and trip-interruption insurance will be welcome in families where such chronic illnesses as diabetes, heart trouble and arthritis add difficulties to scheduling travel. Estimates of how many travelers buy such insurance range from 15 to 70 percent, depending on the cost of a trip, the penalties for cancellation and the age of the travelers.
The major requirement for waiving the pre-existing conditions clause is that the insurance be bought within one day of the first deposit for a trip. If it is bought after that, it retains the exclusion.
 
 
Chance of Forfeit
 As an example of a problem the 24-hour purchase requirement creates, assume that a couple is buying a 15-day cruise at $3,550 a person, for a total of $7,100. In this price bracket, one insurance company charges a per-person premium of $199. The cruise line requires a deposit of $500 a person; full payment is due eight weeks, or 56 days, before departure. This couple puts down the deposit and buys an insurance package immediately. If they cancel after that but more than 60 days before departure, the cruise line's rules say they forfeit $200 a person. This loss would be covered by the insurance, but the benefit is almost exactly equal to the premium. It is this aspect of the new provision that makes an officer of one insurance company characterize it as "not ideal."
The value of the change, however, appears in the period after the full payment is made -- in this case, 60 days before departure. If illness should force a cancellation, the $199 premium would bring a refund of the $3,550. The "loss" would then be only the premium.
The companies have not all printed new application forms, and some are using stickers or inserts to call attention to the change.
Because of the one-day purchase requirement, the easiest thing to do is buy the insurance from the travel agent who sells the cruise or tour. But the protection provisions on default of agents or tour operators do not cover the default of the organization selling the policy. So if a traveler has anxieties about the financial stability of the travel agent and the coverage cannot be bought elsewhere, a credit card should be used for the trip deposit, which will provide some protection if the travel agent defaults.
Since not all travel agents are authorized to sell all brands of travel insurance, a client seeking a particular policy should ask the travel agent to get in touch with the company ahead of time. Sandy Bolz, a marketing official for the Noel Companies' Travel Guard, said that despite agents' sales efforts, customers who in the past have bought coverage by telephone direct from her company have usually done it at the last minute. If they do this now, they will still be subject to the pre-existing conditions clause.
Mutual of Omaha Companies' Cruise and Tour Insurance is underwritten by Omaha Property and Casualty Insurance. The insurance must be bought within 24 hours of the initial deposit and must cover the full cost of the trip, with a limit of $20,000. A policy with several types of coverage for a cruise priced from $1,501 to $2,000 costs $99 a person; for a tour of the same price, $107. A mail-in form is on the flier, or calls can be made to (800) 228-9792.
 
 
Domino Effect
 The C.S.A. Company in San Diego dropped the exclusion clause for three of its policies last month. The underwriter is the Commercial Union Insurance Company. Coverage, for the full amount of the cost of the trip to a maximum of $20,000, must be bought by the end of the next business day after the initial deposit. A policy for a cruise costing $1,501 to $2,000 would be $97 for a family or those sharing a cabin; for a tour, the premium is 5 percent of the cost. Applications may be phoned to (800) 348-9505 or faxed to (800) 336-6409.
Globalcare Insurance Services in Lynnfield, Mass., also sells a Commercial Union policy, Economy Plan for Cruise and Travel. It also requires purchase the next day, for the full amount of the trip, up to $20,000. Coverage for a family or people sharing a cabin on a cruise for a trip costing $1,501 to $2,000 is $110. Applications may be telephoned to (800) 779-1017 or faxed to (800) 336-6409. The Commercial Union policies are not available in Texas, South Carolina, Kansas and Connecticut.
Travel Guard's Cruise and Protection Plan dropped its exclusion June 1, but at the moment only travel agents can sell such policies, according to Ms. Bolz. Its underwriter is the Continental Casualty Company of Chicago. The premium for a policy with varied coverage for a trip costing $1,501 to $2,000 is $109. Information: (800) 826-1300.
Travel Insured's Travel Insurance Pak dropped its exclusion Aug. 16. The underwriter is Travelers Indemnity of Hartford. The premium for a policy on a trip costing $2,000 is $110 a person. Information: (800) 243-3174.
World Access will drop the exclusion from its Access America policy on Friday, according to Beth Godlin, senior vice president. The underwriter is B.C.S. Insurance Company. Information: (800) 284-8300.
Robin Levine, executive vice president of the Berkely Group on Long Island, which designs insurance for cruise and tour companies to sell under their own names, as well as freestanding policies, said her company was looking at the issue.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AV (NYSE) (90%); AV (LSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: AVIVA PLC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (74%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); BOSTON, MA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; INSURANCE; MEDICINE AND HEALTH DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); TRAVEL INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CRUISES (89%); INSURANCE (89%); FAMILY (78%); HEART DISEASE (77%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (73%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (71%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); ARTHRITIS (66%); CHRONIC DISEASES (61%); DIABETES (50%); 

PERSON: WADE, BETSY

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



495 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property: The Decline of the Prestigious Address;
'Location, Location, Location'? It's 'Cost, Cost, Cost'

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
ITEM: FCB/Leber Katz, the advertising agency, moves from 767 Fifth Avenue, the ever-so-fancy General Motors building at 59th Street, to the 40-year-old, plain vanilla Mobil Building, at 150 East 42d Street.
"Our marching orders were to reduce their occupancy costs, because they realized that image for image's sake is simply passe," said I. Keith Ellis, a managing director at the Edward S. Gordon real estate firm who found FCB the space. 
 Item: Avon Products abandons 9 West 57th Street, a true trophy building, for 1251 Avenue of the Americas, one of numerous glass-and-steel skyscrapers along what was once Corporate Corridor. And, it takes floors three through six, base floors that used to appeal only to back-office operations.
"Large floorplates, reasonable prices, the ability to link floors with internal staircases, all were a lot more important than great views or being in a trophy building," said Brian Martin, an Avon vice president.
Item: Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe, the big San Francisco law firm, comes "within a hair's breadth" of signing for space at the G.M. building, recalls Richard Weidman, a senior partner. It also comes pretty close to signing at 375 Park Avenue, the elegant Seagram Building at 52d Street.
But it lands instead at 666 Fifth Avenue, the 52d Street building that Mr. Weidman concedes will need a lot of spiffing up before it can be considered true A-quality space.
"The dollar difference wasn't that significant," Mr. Weidman said. "What mattered was that 666 Fifth was the only place that could give us four contiguous floors with options to expand."
It seems that the days when a fancy address was paramount really did go out with the free-spending 1980's. Today, many companies are spurning ultra-expensive, high-status buildings for more serviceable and affordable space. In doing so, they are signaling an end of the flight to quality, that flow of tenants from lower-quality buildings to higher ones that happens when a recession pulls rents in fancy buildings down.
Apparently, the cost differential between the ultra-new and the still-serviceable old remains wide enough to turn off the cost-conscious, 1990's tenant.
"The determining factor is cost," said Jack D. Rehm, chairman of the Meredith Corporation, the publishing company that just took 105,000 square feet at 125 Park Avenue, a 73-year-old building at 42d Street. "If the elevators run, the lobby is O.K., the space you occupy is right, it just doesn't matter if the address is prestigious."
The list of corporate tenants that seem to agree is getting longer. First Boston is leaving Park Avenue Plaza, a highly regarded modern building at 55 East 52d Street, for 11 Madison Avenue, an old building at 24th Street, well south of high-prestige territory. Equitable Life is moving from Equitable Tower, its 10-year-old headquarters monument at Seventh Avenue and 51st Street, to 1290 Avenue of the Americas, a 34-year-old building at 51st Street.
And converts to the new austerity keep cropping up. Michael T. Cohen, president of Williams Real Estate, tells of one client who asked him to find fancy Park Avenue space. He found it, at an annual rent in the low $30's a square foot, $10 less than they were paying in the prewar, Grand Central Terminal-area building they currently occupy. At the last minute they renewed in their current building, for less than $25 a foot.
"The opportunity to fly to quality was there, but they chose economic conservatism over that intangible you get for being in a snazzy building," Mr. Cohen said.
Most of these companies still care about the image they project. But, in an era of cost-cutting and downsizing, an image of reckless spending is not what they want. Rather, they want to seem concerned about their own bottom lines -- and, by association, those of their customers and shareholders. Thus, they are trading down space, with the confidence that clients and Wall Street will smile on their new Spartan outlook.
"Everyone's corporate objective is to reduce operating costs and increase productivity and efficiency," said Barry Gosin, chief executive of Newmark Real Estate.
"TRADING down has become a sign of financial discipline, not financial weakness," said Mary Ann Tighe, executive managing director of Edward S. Gordon, who says that when she financially analyzes a deal for a tenant now, she routinely includes the impact of that deal on earnings per share.
Of course, tenants do still care about how their space looks. But, just as some homeowners get great satisfaction out of creating splendid interiors in rundown old houses, many of these corporate tenants get the same satisfaction out of spending their occupancy dollars on their furnishings and equipment, not on a fancy address.
"Great images are just no longer determined by being in A-plus buildings on the East Side," said Carol Nelson, an executive vice president at the Gordon firm. "You can get the same incredible image from being in wonderfully designed space in a loft building in midtown south."
Of course, for big space users, few loft buildings are practical. FCB, for one, would have loved space in what Mr. Ellis calls the "creative districts," but few buildings in Midtown South or SoHo can accommodate a 175,000-square-foot user with lots of computers. "From a logistical point of view, the search became nightmarish when we tried to leave midtown," Mr. Ellis recalled.
In fact, the new emphasis on practicality has not done much good for owners of outmoded buildings in inaccessible locations. But it has given new hope to owners of buildings that, during the flight to quality, were spurned by tenants hankering for glitz. Many of these owners are pouring money into their buildings to raise them from marginal status to the A -- or at least, A-minus -- ranks to woo those tenants back.
Last year, when Leucadia National bought 685 Third Avenue, the 615,000-square-foot former American Home Products headquarters building filling the block from 43d to 44th Street, it was two-thirds vacant. It was also weird-looking: Built in two stages, it was half traditional wedding-cake architecture with glazed white and pink brick, and half modernistic dark gray skyscraper with tinted windows.
Leucadia is pumping between $8 and $10 million into re-skinning and modernizing the building, and stands ready to offer a large-space user its own elevator bank, its name on the door, and a good contribution to customizing space. It expects to start marketing the building in early 1996.
"We're not the G.M. building or the I.B.M. building, we don't have newness or a fancy address," said Mark Hornstein, a Leucadia vice president. "But we're a good building right near Grand Central, and we're already getting active interest from publishing houses, law firms, accounting firms, all kinds of companies that were a lot more image-conscious in the 1980's."
Similarly, Sumitomo Realty is refurbishing the lobby and otherwise fixing up 666 Fifth to make firms like Orrick Herrington feel that they are not trading down too far. Arthur L. Bocchi, a Sumitomo vice president in charge of leasing the building, says that, with word of the refurbishing out, several tenants who, a year ago, turned down space he had available are now back at his negotiating table.
"Until fairly recently we still lost deals when potential tenants opted to pay extra for a newer building," Mr. Bocchi said. "But we've noticed that things like views and newness don't drive deals anymore."
This new practicality may even offer a ray of hope to landlords in the vacancy- plagued financial district -- to the disgruntlement of their midtown counterparts.
"The large blocks of space and unfair tax incentives available downtown are starting to induce large tenants to move there," complained Anthony E. Malkin, president of W&M Properties, which manages several buildings. He reports that a large tenant at 1185 Avenue of the Americas, the building at 46th Street that W&M manages, is leaving for older, but cheaper, space downtown.
Of course, there are still corporate tenants that want fancy space and fancy addresses, and will pay heavily for it. But even they are starting to distinguish between space that identifies them to the outside world, and space that only they see.
Sony, for one, has spent millions turning 550 Madison, the former AT&T headquarters building at 55th Street, into a signature place that its Japanese owners, its entertainment industry clients, and others will be delighted to see. But when it needed expansion space recently for some less visible functions, it took it across the street, at 555 Madison, a perfectly nice but no-frills, utilitarian building.
"Companies like Sony are keeping the dealmakers in the fancy house," said George H. Keller, a senior managing director at Cushman & Wakefield. "But they have no problem with moving support functions to lesser quarters."

GRAPHIC: Photo: I. Keith Ellis and Laura J. Fischer in FCB/Leber Katz's as-yet-unrenovated space at 150 East 42d Street. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MDP (NYSE) (61%); GM (NYSE) (58%); AVP (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (61%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (51%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: ORRICK HERRINGTON & SUTCLIFFE LLP (84%); MEREDITH CORP (61%); FCB/LEBER KATZ PARTNERS (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (57%); AQUANTIVE INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (74%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (72%); PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H RICHARD WEIDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



496 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3010 words

HEADLINE: Unmarried Pairs: Let the Buyers Beware

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
THE minute Howard Mimnaugh saw the run-down, century-old, two-family victorian in Hightstown, N.J., he realized it was just the house he was looking for. The building needed work, Mr. Mimnaugh said, but he figured that he and his female friend of many years could buy the property as a tax shelter and work as a team to restore it to its former glory.
With each contributing equally to the purchase and renovation, Mr. Mimnaugh estimated it would take three years of nights and weekends for the couple to complete the project. About seven months after they bought the house, however, Mr. Mimnaugh's partner decided to divest herself of both the house and Mr. Mimnaugh. 
 "She basically said, 'I'm out of here,' and then she picked up and left," Mr. Mimnaugh said. He was able to salvage his investment -- and keep the house -- only after delicate negotiations with his former girlfriend's father, who had provided some of the money, he said.
"It's hard enough to have a business deal go bad," said Mr. Mimnaugh, a Princeton, N.J., tax accountant. "But when there's an emotional side too, it becomes really terrible."
Real estate experts say that the arrangement that gave rise to Mr. Mimnaugh's situation -- joint ownership of residential real estate by unmarried individuals -- is becoming increasingly common. And they say that gay couples, elderly couples, and heterosexual couples deferring marriage all contribute to the trend.
The implications of such arrangements, however, are daunting. In addition to the obvious question of what to do with a house if a partnership -- or a couple -- breaks up, there are other vexing issues that often arise. Among them are questions regarding the manner in which title should be held, which will have significant consequences if the house is sold or one party moves out or dies; the use and occupancy of the property; the potential for liability for a partner's debts; the difficulty of removing a former partner's name from a mortgage and deed, and the arcane and sometimes costly tax problems that haunt even the most well-planned investment endeavor.
Lawyers say that most potential problems can be avoided by the use of a carefully drafted written agreement that clearly defines the rights and obligations of the parties. But getting to such an agreement isn't necessarily simple. To avoid a problem one has not only to anticipate it but also to confront it. "Very often, a couple is overwhelmed by their relationship and they don't think through about everything that could happen," said David Clurman, a Manhattan real estate lawyer, referring to unmarried partners planning to purchase a home. Even when the parties remain clear-headed enough to anticipate potential pitfalls, there is a natural tendency to avoid talking about them.
Bonnie Orenstein, a Manhattan advertising executive, said that she was somewhat timid about raising the issue of an agreement when she was about to purchase a Manhattan co-op with her boyfriend.
"Was it hard? I'd have to say yes," Ms. Orenstein said. "But it was also one of those necessary evils."
The agreement Ms. Orenstein and her boyfriend ultimately signed, she said, focuses on what happens if they split up or one of them dies. But the agreement was drafted for the unmarried couple by the attorney who handled the closing, a relatively common occurrence that makes some lawyers uncomfortable.
"This is a delicate issue," said William Selsberg, a Stamford, Conn., real estate lawyer. "Both parties should be represented by separate counsel. But the hardest thing in the world to do is to tell two people you know very well that they each have to have their own lawyer." Nevertheless, Mr. Selsberg said, if the parties don't raise the issue of independent representation, the lawyer should.
Ted Bohn, a New York and New Jersey lawyer who is also president of the New Jersey Lesbian and Gay Law Association, agreed, and said that written agreements negotiated by independently represented parties are critical because of the difference in the way the laws deal with married and unmarried couples who own real estate.
"When people are married and then get divorced, the courts decide equitably who should get what," Mr. Bohn said. "Usually, they say, 'He gets half, she gets half, good luck and goodbye.' "
But increasing numbers of unmarried couples -- particularly gay couples -- are now buying property in both partners' names. If the couple subsequently breaks up, the distribution of the assets of such a relationship can be a complicated and costly affair.
"Since you cannot use a divorce procedure to allocate or distribute the property, you must use a generic civil lawsuit called a partition action to allocate the property rights," Mr. Bohn said.
In such litigation, Mr. Bohn said, the parties are often called upon to prove their respective contributions to the partnership property over the years.
"That means pulling out checkbooks and showing what each party has contributed," he said. "And you've got even bigger problems if the checks were paid out of a joint account because then you have to prove how much each of you contributed to the joint account."
Another issue that inevitably arises when two people buy property together is what happens to the property if one of the parties dies. And closely associated with that concern is the issue of how to minimize the taxes on the estate of the deceased partner.
Typically, a married couple takes title to real estate as "tenants by the entirety," said Eric Davis, a real estate lawyer who has offices in New York and New Jersey. This means that each has an equal interest in the property and if one spouse dies the property passes automatically to the surviving spouse -- tax free.
In the case of an unmarried couple, however, to obtain a similar form of ownership -- known as a joint tenancy with right of survivorship -- specific words to that effect must be included in the deed. Otherwise, in most states, the parties will be considered "tenants in common." Under that form of ownership, each party owns an independent interest in the property that passes to his or her heirs at death -- usually subject to estate taxes.
Accordingly, the most significant question an unmarried couple confronts when buying property is how they will hold title to the property -- as joint tenants or as tenants in common. And since the question inevitably raises tax and estate-planning issues, its answer often necessitates yet another level of legal expertise.
"There's no question that the law does not treat live-ins the same as married couples for estate planning purposes," said John Spitzmiller, chairman of the trusts and estates law section of the New York State Bar Association.
Accordingly, Mr. Spitzmiller said, when an unmarried couple buys property -- particularly as tenants in common -- careful estate planning is necessary to minimize taxes and avoid the potential for emotion-laden confrontations between a surviving partner and the heirs of the deceased partner.
Generally, he said, even a last will and testament -- by itself -- does not adequately protect each of the parties because a will can be destroyed or changed at any time by the person who made it. As a result, Mr. Spitzmiller said, if wills are used they should be supplemented by written agreements that contain the entire understanding of the parties.
As a practical matter, however, hiring batteries of individual lawyers with expertise in real estate, partnerships, taxation, estates, trusts and at least passing familiarity with the psychology of romance is a luxury most people can ill afford.
That being the case, however, real estate experts say that many unmarried couples who own property together probably do not know how they hold title -- a potential nightmare in the making if one partner dies.
One New Jersey homeowner interviewed for this article, for example, is a licensed real estate agent who has owned a house with a companion for more than a decade. When asked how he and his partner held title, he replied: "As tenants in common with the right of survivorship," a form of ownership that does not exist in New Jersey.
AN unmarried couple who bought a house together in Connecticut a little over a month ago disagreed when each was asked how they held title.
"As tenants in common, I think," the man said.
"As joint tenants, I hope," said the woman.
Moreover, the couple -- both small-business owners -- were advised by their lawyer that it would not be necessary for them to have a written agreement as long as they both had wills. At the time of the interview, the wills had not yet been drafted.
With a co-op, the need to have a documented understanding between unmarried partners is even more critical.
"You must treat a co-op as a unity," said Arthur Weinstein, a Manhattan lawyer and vice president of the Council of New York Cooperatives, explaining that while two or more people can jointly own shares to a co-op, the co-op considers the owner a single entity. As a result, Mr. Weinstein said, unmarried cooperators must be particularly careful to plan for what will happen if the relationship breaks up or if one of the parties dies.
"You cannot subdivide a co-op," Mr. Weinstein said. "And you can't leave occupancy of a co-op to a third party when you die." Some proprietary leases, he said, make exceptions for immediate family members.
Moreover, he said, the co-op is under no obligation to allow one partner to remain in the apartment if the partnership breaks up -- even if the two partners have reached an agreement that satisfies them.
"The co-op is entitled to review the financial resources of the remaining owner to assure that maintenance and other obligations can be met," Mr. Weinstein said.
He added that some proprietary leases grant "special considerations" to marital partners remaining in an apartment after a divorce or the death of the other partner. "And the courts have held that any such special considerations must also be accorded to a life partner in a gay relationship," he said.
"Still," Mr. Weinstein said, "when unmarried partners make any economic deal between themselves, they must be sure that it is enforceable under terms of their proprietary lease."
In fact, even partners who have written agreements find that there are subtle but compelling differences between being mere business partners and partners in an enterprise as personal and infused with emotion as a home.
"It would sure be nice not to worry about what is going to happen if I decide to leave this house," said Dr. Joelna Marcus, a college professor who bought a Jersey City, N.J., brownstone with a male colleague about 20 years ago.
Though the partnership has worked admirably so far, she said, she is a bit apprehensive about what will happen if it dissolves. In addition to the inevitable question of "who put how much where" in the house, she said, there is also the potential for confusion if one partner wants to sell and the other doesn't.
"We could really mess each other up with that one," Dr. Marcus said. The agreement she and her partner signed 20 years ago provides that either partner can block the sale of the other's share to someone else. "That's probably one of the reasons we're both vested in making this work," Dr. Marcus said.
Kevingerarrd Cannon, a New Jersey resident, is now at the point that Dr. Marcus anticipates with trepidation.
About 12 years ago, Mr. Cannon and a male companion bought a house together in Hoboken. The relationship ended a few years ago, but Mr. Cannon and his partner have both continued to live in the house, which has two separate apartments. Mr. Cannon is now in a new relationship and is planning to sell his share of the first house to his first partner and then buy the house next door with his new partner.
MR. CANNON has two potential problems: If he were to die unexpectedly, his share of the first house would automatically go to his former partner because they hold title as joint tenants.
Moreover, in order for Mr. Cannon to buy the house next door, he needs the money he has invested in his current home. And while his first partner has agreed to buy out Mr. Cannon's interest, that may be more complicated and costly than it appears because it is unlikely that the bank will release Mr. Cannon from his obligations under the note and mortgage unless the first partner takes out a new mortgage in his name alone.
"Mortgage companies are happy to add names to a mortgage but they rarely take names off," said Mr. Selsberg, the Connecticut real estate lawyer.
As a result, Mr. Selsberg said, without the consent of the mortgage holder, it is difficult for one partner to "buy out" another partner without creating considerable risk for both. The reason is that signing away ownership rights does not necessarily relieve a party of obligations under the original note and mortgage, he said.
Conversely, Mr. Selsberg said, the partner who is buying is also at risk because nearly every mortgage instrument prohibits the "sale or transfer" of any ownership interest -- even from one co-owner to another -- without the consent of the mortgage holder. That even holds true for parents who agree to "co-sign" for a property with a child and then later seek to transfer their interest in the property to the child.
"It's in paragraph 17 of all standard mortgages," Mr. Selsberg said. The clause provides that if the bank learns of an unauthorized sale or transfer it can "accelerate the loan" and demand immediate full payment of the mortgage. "People ignore paragraph 17 all the time," Mr. Selsberg said. "And when they do, they're playing with fire."
Even the most carefully drafted agreement means little if one of the parties ignores it. If that happens, the parties may find that they're "married" to each other whether they intended it or not.
"In most cases, each party to a mortgage is jointly and severally liable," said Eliot Zuckerman, a Manhattan real estate lawyer. "That means that each party is personally obligated for the entire debt. So, if one party just walks away, that means that the remaining partner can be stuck with the entire obligation."
Moreover, Mr. Zuckerman said, any lien or judgment against an owner of real estate usually ends up as a lien against the property -- even if a co-owner has nothing to do with the debt.
AT the same time, an unmarried couple buying property together should be aware that one partner's credit history can affect the couple's ability to qualify for a mortgage.
"If one of the two parties has strong credit and the other party has bad credit, then the property should probably be put in the name of the person with the strong credit," said Stanley Greenstein, president of the Seldin Organization, a mortgage broker in New Hyde Park, N.Y. Mr. Greenstein added that as a practical matter, however, an unmarried couple is treated no differently than a married couple for purposes of obtaining a mortgage.
Even couples planning marriage, it seems, must exercise caution if they buy property together before they are married.
Kenneth B. Goldstein, a Manhattan lawyer who specializes in matrimonial law, said that such a couple might have an expensive legal problem if the marriage ends in divorce.
"When you have a piece of property that was not acquired during the marriage, the court in a divorce case can't decide what happens to that property," Mr. Goldstein said. As a result, he said, if the parties can't settle the matter of the prenuptial property themselves, they would have to file a separate civil action to resolve the issue.
Moreover, he said, all people who jointly own real estate should be exceedingly careful about taking out "equity lines of credit" on the property.
"I've seen matrimonial cases where a spouse will write a check for the total amount available on a home equity loan, spend the money, and leave nothing for the other spouse," Mr. Goldstein said.
Ralph Warner, a Berkeley, Calif., lawyer who is also co-author of "The Living Together Kit," a do-it-yourself manual for drafting agreements between unmarried individuals, said that even elderly couples are now more frequently buying property together without bothering to marry.
"With people in their 60's and 70's it's an accelerating trend," Mr. Warner said. "They don't want to confuse their relationships with their kids. And though the kids may be supportive of mom or dad having a new partner, they don't want to lose their inheritance, either."
 
 
Advice for Husbands and Wives
 In most cases, a husband and wife own real estate as "tenants by the entirety," a form of co-ownership available only to married couples that results in property passing automatically to the surviving spouse when one spouse dies.
At times, however, it might be preferable for a married couple to hold title individually or as tenants in common, even if the property is now owned as a tenancy by the entirety. "It's usually done for estate planning purposes," said Joel E. Miller, a New York City tax lawyer.
In general, he said, the determining factor is the value of the couple's assets. If total assets exceed $600,000 -- the amount an individual can pass "tax free" to another person -- then it might be worth holding property individually or as tenants in common. Accordingly, Mr. Miller said, couples with total assets of more than $600,000 should consult a tax expert to determine what is best for them. "You might want to divide up your assets, do away with rights of survivorship, and have each spouse direct the first $600,000 to a trust for the kids," he said.
Another reason to hold property individually rather than in both names is to protect the property from potential creditors, said Harold Lubell, a Manhattan real estate lawyer. "If one spouse is in an occupation that has a high risk of personal liability, it might be wise for a couple to keep as many assets as possible in the name of the other spouse," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Howard Mimnaught bought a New Jersey house with his longtime companion. She left; ownership problems began. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times); Dr. Joela Marcus bought a brownstone with a colleague 20 years ago. She says she has concerns about what will happen if the partnership ends. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Kevingerarrd Cannon outside the house in Hoboken that he and a companion bought together 12 years ago. The relationship has ended, and he is planning to sell his share of the house to his former partner. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SINGLE PERSONS; TAXATION REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COHABITATION (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TRENDS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (76%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (75%); DIVESTITURES (74%); JOINTLY HELD PROPERTY (73%); LAWYERS (71%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY HOWARD MIMNAUGH (91%); TED BOHN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



497 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 6; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Habitats: 135 Lafayette Avenue;
Architect Renovates a Home for Himself in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
YVES FRANCOIS, all 6 feet, 4 inches of him, hoisted himself up on the foot-high brownstone base of the iron railing, and, clinging to the railing's wicked-looking spikes, edged himself across the precipice: a wet cement walkway.
Mr. Francois is not an easy person to keep up with. At 30, he has already spent four years working as an architectural consultant to the Pepsi Cola Company in Somers, N.Y., working his way up to project manager. And he has just bought his first house: a massive three-window-wide Second Empire brick rowhouse in the Fort Greene section of Brooklyn. 
 More than three years ago, he moved from Clinton Hill in Brooklyn out to Katonah, five minutes from Somers, where he stayed for two years. "But I always had an idea to do this scale of renovation," he said, walking around surveying the bare wood framing of his town house. "First, of course, it's a great place to live. Second, I want to use the renovation as a marketing tool to show prospective clients. Isn't it much better than just saying: 'Oh, yeah, I did an addition for so-and-so; let's see if they're around this weekend."
Last November, Mr. Francois' parents moved back to Haiti, their native country, from the Canarsie section of Brooklyn, where they had lived for 30 years. Mr. Francois moved into their house and started saving money. "Instead of paying the $1,200 in rent a month," he said, "I started putting it away for a house. Yes, it's great -- except for the one and a half hour commute."
During the last year and a half, Mr. Francois saw about 100 buildings "from Brooklyn to Harlem."
"The thing about Harlem, the interiors had a lot of details, but they wanted a lot of money for those details: $200,000 to $300,000," he said. "But I felt that certain areas in Harlem were not as stable as here in Fort Greene -- they weren't bad, but they weren't as stable." Mr. Francois recalled looking at several houses in the Mount Morris Park neighborhood.
"Lots of times, the owners try to make a quick dollar," he said. "They'll say: 'This house is great -- you don't have to do a thing to it,' and I'd say to myself: 'You must be kidding.' Or they'd say: 'There's great schools here' -- but since I don't have kids, it's not a concern."
Mr. Francois, who is divorced, was simply looking for a great deal.
"This house was probably one of the first of the hundred I looked at," he said. "But at the time, the owner was looking for $250,000, which was completely out of my ballpark."
Besides the 5,000-square-foot four-story house, the property included an 800-square-foot two-story brick rear house, which Mr. Francois immediately thought of for his office/design studio.
But it was still too much money.
"The house had been empty for eight years and was all boarded up," he said. "I remember when I came to see it -- oh, maybe for the third time -- there was a homeless guy who lived downstairs. He got in from going upstairs next door and somehow climbing down through the hatch. The guy was really all set up here. The water had never been turned off and neither had the electricity; either that, or he was able to tap the electricity because he had a toaster; he even kept a couple of cats."
After Mr. Francois bought the house at 135 Lafayette Avenue, between Cumberland and Carlton Avenues, and started reconstruction, the new owner told the homeless man he would let him stay as long as he kept his living space clean.
"I even gave him a couple of dollars to clean the steps," he said. "I haven't seen him lately; a neighbor told me he actually has a renovated apartment somewhere around here, but that he hates it."
ANYWAY, even though Mr. Francois had looked at all these other houses, he kept thinking about the one on Lafayette Avenue.
The New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission report, issued when it designated the Fort Greene historic district, says that the house was probably built around 1865, and that besides its mansard roof with two dormers, it has "a lovely round-arched stone doorway . . . and is further enhanced by bracketed table sills and flush stone lintels; an unusual bracketed cornice supports the slate mansard."
"About a year after I first saw it, I called the agent and asked whether it was still for sale," Mr. Francois recalled. "You see," he said, grinning, "I drove by it every chance I got." The agent told him it was still for sale.
Just before he called the agent, he learned that another house he had looked at -- and just missed buying because someone signed the contract first -- had just sold for $150,000, so he submitted his first offer on the Lafayette Avenue house: $160,000.
That was summarily turned down, but the seller did accept $180,000, and the deal was set -- except for the cold feet Mr. Francois suddenly experienced.
"Gosh, why am I paying $30,000 more than that other guy," he said. "I didn't want to be a fool. But then I figured I'm paying $30,000 for the extra two-story building in the back -- I sold myself on it all over again."
In the meantime, Mr. Francois was making friends in the neighborhood. Even before he bought the house, he had called Errol Hines, the man who bought the other house for $150,000. He said he called just to chat -- the man had beaten him to two houses he had looked at -- and came away with the design commission for Mr. Hines's house, which is around the corner on Clinton Avenue.
Now that he has bought the house, his new neighbors keep watch for him.
"They know that I work and that my brother, who is handling the construction, is away from the site a lot," he said. "So they call me to tell me the workers are just standing around in front talking, not working. Or there was one guy who didn't work out, who was back hanging around -- they called me."
At the corner, the grocery store lets Mr. Francois leave stuff -- like checks or packages -- for his workers to pick up. The store opens early -- 6:30 in the morning -- so it's a convenient dropoff spot as Mr. Francois speeds through just after dawn on his long drive to Somers.
To make the project work economically, Mr. Francois took out a special Federal Housing Administration 203K loan that covered both the cost of purchase and construction. Although he pays two percentage points more than he would for a conventional mortgage, he really had no choice: regular bank mortgages do not cover construction costs. Altogether, he financed $292,500 -- which he says is far less than the $400,000 total he would have to spend if he turned the project over to a general contractor.
But with his brother's help -- his brother just graduated from school in architecture but has deferred his job hunt until January, when his brother's house should be finished -- and with the help of engineer and landscape-designer friends, and with his own weekend sweat equity, he hopes to pull off the renovation within budget.
THE other day he walked the tightrope -- edging along the two-inch edge of brownstone under the spiked railing -- to pull an 18-inch square model out of his Nissan Pathfinder.
The model shows the main house and the back house, linked by a rather ambitious glassed-in round-topped walkway leading from the parlor floor of the house to his two-story office.
"My parents think I'm crazy," Mr. Francois said. "They said: 'Why would you put yourself through all this hassle, when you could go out to the Island or to Jersey and buy yourself a nice house?' "
"I'm kind of glad my father moved back to Haiti," said Mr. Francois, who designed his parents' new home there, "because he would've discouraged me; the only person I really confided in was my brother -- and I don't know what I would've done without him."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yves Francois outside the 19th-century brownstone he is renovating in the Fort Greene Historic District in Brooklyn. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PEPSI-COLA CO (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (74%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; ARCHITECTURE REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (76%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE; FRANCOIS, YVES HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



498 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
The Old Tax Debate Is New Once More

BYLINE: By Joseph F. Sullivan; Joseph F. Sullivan is a reporter in the Trenton bureau of The New York Times. Iver Peterson is on vacation.

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
With Assembly Republicans preparing to defend their majority rule on the basis of Governor Whitman's income-tax rate cuts, Democrats are taking every opportunity to try to link the cuts to higher property taxes.
The debate isn't new, but it has begun to heat up, with the release of a report by the Governor's office claiming that the rate of increase in property taxes for both school and municipal purposes this year was lower than last year's, and that the local tax increase for schools was the second lowest in 17 years. 
 Democrats countered that the property-tax increases were still higher than the rate of inflation and that the report was incomplete because it didn't include municipalities that operate on a July-to-June fiscal year instead of a calendar year.
Leo Klagholz, the State Education Commissioner, said the property tax increase attributable to school costs was 3.5 percent, almost 2 percentage points lower than last year. In a statement he said this "reflects a conscientious effort to hold down expenses" on the part of local school districts.
Harriet Derman, Commissioner of Community Affairs, said the increase in the tax for municipal purposes was 2.8 percent, a number that was met with skepticism, not only by the Democratic leadership in the Legislature, but by the state organization that represents local governments.
Assemblyman Joseph J. Roberts Jr. of Brooklawn, who carries the title of budget officer for the Democratic Assembly minority, said that even if the administration's claims were to be believed, local property taxes still rose $222 million so far this year -- a number that will increase when the fiscal-year communities are added to the report.
Neither the Democrats nor the New Jersey State League of Municipalities were able to get any documentation of the administration's claims about holding down the increase in municipal taxes. The Education Department provided more detailed information about the school figures.
William G. Dressel, executive director of the league, said he thought the increase for municipal purposes would be a little higher than 2.8 percent. "Based on what I've been hearing around the state, I expected it to be between 3 and 5 percent," he said. "What we were given was only a partial snapshot of the property tax situation at this time, and when the fiscal-year municipalities are added to the mix I think we'll be closer to the 3-to-5-percent figure."
"It's difficult for me, based on the summary, to start passing out bouquets to the administration," Mr. Dressel said. "If there are any bouquets they should go to the mayors and council members for keeping the tax increases at a modest level."
Mr. Dressel said he was concerned about the future, since state aid to municipalities has remained constant for the past three years while the costs of labor, fuel, pensions and benefits continue to rise. The Whitman administration was able to match last year's aid level only by adding $85 million to the amount the towns receive from the excess gross-receipts tax on utilities. "Local taxes clearly would have soared without it, but we've been told that we won't get it next year," he said.
Mrs. Whitman, who has repeatedly claimed that decisions by local officials, and not state aid levels, are responsible for property tax increases, said the small increases in local taxes this year show that local officials "have responded appropriately and with the best interests of the taxpayers in mind."
The Senate Minority Leader, John A. Lynch, a New Brunswick Democrat, said in a statement that the Governor was trying to mislead the public by releasing "piecemeal information."
"People are too smart," he went on, "to buy the spin that the Whitman administration's borrow-and-spend fiscal agenda doesn't have a direct link to rising property taxes."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC ASSEMBLY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC ASSEMBLY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; INCOME TAX PROPERTY TAX (93%); TAX INCREASES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); MAYORS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F WILLIAM G DRESSEL (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



499 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 5; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: DESTINATIONS;
Camden's Changing Waterfront Resounds With Music and Hope

BYLINE: By KAREN DeMASTERS 

 BODY:
Last fall, truckloads of dirt were dumped on a flat, vacant lot on the Camden waterfront at a rate of one a minute, 10 hours a day, for three months. The 475,000 cubic yards of dirt formed an outdoor amphitheater capable of seating 18,000 people on lawn chairs.
That was the beginning of what has become known as the E-Center. The outdoor seating supplements the 7,000 seats under the roof of the amphitheater, the latest in this city's redevelopment efforts. 
 The E-Center, formally known as the Blockbuster-Sony Music Entertainment Center at the Waterfront, had its grand opening in June, with "Music of Andrew Lloyd Webber," and went on from there to Barney the purple dinosaur in July to a sold-out Jimmy Buffet concert on Aug. 19. That was the only sold-out show so far, although several others came close.
The first summer season, which wraps up in September, is expected to contribute 400,000 of the 750,000 people the theater hopes to draw this year. Lawn-seating tickets are sold first come, first served. Patrons may bring their own blankets; lawn chairs must be rented, for $3. Unlike similar amphitheaters, the E-Center discourages pre-concert picnics.
Unlike most other outdoor theaters, including the Garden State Arts Center in Holmdel, the E-Center will have a winter season, made possible by enclosing the 7,000 seats under a roof for year-round use. The indoor section of the theater can be divided to form a 3,700-seat forum for contemporary music; two theaters, with 3,200 and 2,600 seats, for touring productions of Broadway shows, and the 1,700-seat Walter Rand Theater, named for the former State Senator from Camden, for the South Jersey Performing Arts Center's productions.
This winter's bookings range from the violinist Itzhak Perlman as soloist with the Haddonfield Symphony to a touring stage show based on New Line Cinema's "Mortal Kombat" to "The Magic of David Copperfield."
"We are redefining the live-music experience for the Delaware Valley," said Dominic Roncace, general manager of E-Center. "The Entertainment Center is big enough to attract major artists, but still intimate enough to let you enjoy the show."
Once a thriving industrial and commercial hub, the Camden waterfront had long been virtually abandoned until redevelopment began.
The E-Center was built with $31 million from Pavilion Partners, which runs concert halls in the United States and Britain, and $26 million in state money. It continues as a joint public-private operation, with the buildings and grounds still owned by the state. The theater is operated by Pace Entertainment Group of Houston, Blockbuster Entertainment Corporation of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Sony Music Entertainment Inc. of New York City.
With a spectacular view of the Delaware River and the Philadelphia skyline as a backdrop, the E-Center is drawing about 70 percent of its patrons from Pennsylvania.
"We see ourselves as the catalyst for the redevelopment of the waterfront," Mr. Roncace said. "We'll be the spur for restaurants and shops to locate here."
Similarly optimistic predictions have been heard before when the future of this city of 87,000 was discussed. But unemployment still hovers around 20 percent; 68 percent of the population still receives some public assistance, and the most prominent features are boarded-up buildings and abandoned stores.
The Thomas H. Kean Aquarium opened on the waterfront in 1992 with similar grandiose predictions, but $3.7 million has already been pumped into renovating it after outstanding initial attendance figures fell off drastically. The decrease in interest may have had as much to do with the nature of the exhibits as it did with the aquarium's location. Originally planned as a tour of New Jersey waters and aquatic life, which turned out to look rather dull, the aquarium has been brightened with the addition of tropical fish and colorful exhibits and decorations.
There are other signs of life along the waterfront and throughout the city, even if some of the plans that have been floated over the years turned into pipe dreams.
"Some things don't materialize, but enough works out so that progress is being made," said Thomas A. Roberts 2d, the executive director of the Camden Redevelopment Agency.
On the waterfront, a 120,000-square-foot headquarters for the Delaware River Port Authority was built, along with a 60-slip county-owned marina and three-acre Wiggins Park. The Martin Marietta Corporation built an office complex nearby, and a new parking garage was built in conjunction with the E-Center, bringing available parking in the area up to 8,400 spaces.
About 400 new housing units have been built in small developments throughout the city, and other residential and commercial projects are in the talking stages.
In addition to 800 construction jobs, the E-Center has generated 20 permanent full-time jobs and about 400 part-time jobs, with an annual payroll of slightly less than $1 million. The theater is expected to bring in $20 million a year in gross sales.
Even though people stay at the theater for only a few hours, its presence "is positive in terms of changing the image of the city," Mr. Roberts said, adding: "It makes the city a more attractive place for investment. The city has a tough image. If people can come in, have a good time and leave safely, it shows Camden is not a terrible place to be."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert and Sandy Keegan of Thorofare spreading a blanket on the lawn outside the E-Center before last week's Tom Petty concert. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Map of Camden showing location of the Entertainment Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BBI (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (83%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (83%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (72%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (72%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BB LIQUIDATING INC (83%); SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (72%); NEW LINE CINEMA CORP (52%); CAMDEN REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMDEN REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; CAMDEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BLOCKBUSTER-SONY MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT CENTER (CAMDEN, NJ) PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); MUSICAL THEATER (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TICKET SALES (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%); THEATER (52%); 

PERSON: DEMASTERS, KAREN DAVID COPPERFIELD (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



500 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2903 words

HEADLINE: Made in New Jersey

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN 

 BODY:
JUST three years ago, the pocket-sized explosive devices that Ralph Dodd manufactures helped steer Hawk anti-aircraft missiles. Last Thursday, Mr. Dodd, the president of Cartridge Actuated Devices in Fairfield, showed the same mechanism to a potential customer looking for a better way to inflate automobile airbags.
Such are the adaptations that New Jersey's small manufacturers are making. Whether by changing gears, riding a trend or staking out a market so small that there is little competition -- like Miller Berry & Sons of Port Norris, one of only three makers of casket mattresses in the country -- many smaller businesses are hanging on even as bigger factories continue to desert the state in droves. Not all of them are thriving -- Mr. Dodd has laid off half his employees in the past five years -- but a great many are surviving. 
 If any reminder was needed that manufacturing in New Jersey is fading, earlier this summer, manufacturing jobs in the state dipped below 500,000 for the first time since the end of World War I, down from a high of almost 900,000 in 1969. Once the eighth largest manufacturing employer in the country, the state has tumbled to 13th, behind such upstarts as Georgia, North Carolina and Tennessee. And the factories that once employed half the state's workers now provide only 14 percent of New Jersey's jobs, even less than the national average of 16 percent.
But while big manufacturers, especially those with plants outside the state, have fewer reasons to stay in a place where wages are high, real estate and electricity are expensive and environmental regulations relatively strict, many smaller firms are finding ways to adapt. And there are a lot of them: the 1995 Harris Infosource International 1995 New Jersey Manufacturers Database lists more than 8,100 firms statewide with fewer than 100 employees.
"Most of what recent expansion there's been in manufacturing in the state has been in small firms, and small firms have been the source of most job creations," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. "Big firms haven't been growing for a long time," he said, noting that companies sometimes subcontract work to smaller manufacturers here and overseas."That gives the opportunity for the creation of small firms, some of which have been created by people who have been outsourced themselves and know the business."
One of the few areas of manufacturing growth in the state capitalizes on environmental rules themselves. Plastics recycling, a field that didn't even exist in New Jersey until recycling laws and bottle bills were passed in the 1980's, now provides more than 450 private-sector jobs statewide, according to the state Department of Environmental Protection. Overall, recycling employs 12,550 people in the private sector, a number that will only grow as the local market for recycled goods continues to expand.
While large manufacturers are still found mostly in red-brick urban industrial districts and along interstates, small factories are everywhere in New Jersey, hiding in plain sight in office parks and along two-lane roads, churning out everything from felt to feed screws to frozen hors d'oeuvres. Here is how a few of them are faring.
 
Violet Packing Company, Williamstown
 Established 1882
 Employees: 35 in peak season.
 Product: crushed tomatoes and tomato sauces
 Annual sales: about $10 million
All Violet Packing has had to do to assure its place in the tomatophile's pantheon is to keep doing what it has been doing for 110 years. Violet, which makes Sclafani crushed tomatoes and Don Pepino marinara, spaghetti and pizza sauces, is the last remaining canner of fresh, vine-ripened New Jersey tomatoes in the country.
Most tomato packers -- including the Redpack plant in not-too-distant Cedarville -- don't even start with tomatoes anymore, but make their products from reconstituted California tomato paste. And as the world is discovering, South Jersey's sandy, loamy soil produces some of the best tomatoes on earth.
"It's a sweeter taste than a California tomato," said Fred Waibel, Violet's production manager, "sweet but tomato-y, not that tasteless blah that processing tomatoes tend to have."
Mr. Waibel noted that this year's hot, dry summer has been good for New Jersey tomatoes.
"The soluble solids are a little higher than usual, so the flavor and the color are a little better," he said. "We've had a moist New Jersey spring and a California-like dry summer, which is perfect."
Indeed. A blind taste test between Sclafani crushed tomatoes and two other brands, Redpack and Tuttarossa, proved to be no contest. The Sclafani tomatoes positively danced on the palate, even carrying traces of the zingy smell-taste of the tomato patch. The other two were almost tasteless with a burned undernote, like music with the bass frequencies turned up way too high and everything else inaudible.
Most of Violet's sales are to the food service industry, so the products can be hard to find at your local grocer, but Loffredo's Deli in Orange and Zabar's in Manhattan both carry the crushed tomatoes.
For the 400 tons of plum tomatoes that arrive in open-topped trucks at Violet's Gloucester County factory every morning from mid-July to early October, the journey from vine to can takes only a few hours.
On the mezzanine overlooking the sorting floor, a quality control tester, Rafael Rodriguez, scooped a pitcherful of simmering sauce from a vat and poured a sample into a device that measures consistency. He hit a lever and the sauce flowed down a ramp with a glug, coming to a somewhere between 8 and 10. Mr. Rodriguez flicked a switch on a control board that said "spice" and a green light went on.
"It's not quite like grandma's kitchen," Mr. Waibel said, "but it sure tastes like it."
 
 Step and a Half Toys, Oldwick
 Established 1994
 Employees: 2
 Product: Electronic musical children's products
 Annual sales: Not yet known.
Early last year, Jim Wilcox went shopping for step stools, the kind that youngsters use to reach the bathroom sink, and was pleased to find nothing of interest whatsoever.
"What there was, was basically plastic boxes with no incentive to get kids to wash their face and hands and brush their teeth," he said.
For Mr. Wilcox, a veteran toy designer, this meant the market was ripe for his latest concept: an electronic singing step stool. He formed his own company, Step and a Half Toys, and started making the Lil' Lion, the Lil' Puppy and the Lil' Dino, a purple dinosaur.
When stepped on, the durable plastic critters say "Ruff ruff" (the puppy) or "Rrroar" (the lion and the dinosaur), and then sing, "Time to brush your teeth and wash your face and hands." The voice of the hygiene mantra is that of Mr. Wilcox himself.
Priced to sell for $12 to $15, the lil' trio hit the stores in May with a bang, Mr. Wilcox said. Hill's department stores ordered 10,000 and has sold 2,500 already. Jamesway, with 23 stores in New Jersey, will begin carrying them next month. His bigest hope, however, is to get shelf space at Toys "R" Us.
"They sell over 100,000 step stools a year," he said. "It would be nice if we could get half of that action."
Aware of the challenges facing a one-product toy company, Mr. Wilcox returned to the woodshed recently and came up with an even more revolutionary device: the world's first electronic singing potty seat.
After using the seat, the toddler pushes a button and the lil' potty sings, "A-B-C-D-E-F-G, Won't you be so proud of me."
The idea, Mr. Wilcox said, was to allow toddlers more independence.
"Children sort of like their privacy when they do No. 2," he said, "so when the child's finished, he can just press the button and let mom know."
Mr. Wilcox said the jingle was the hardest part.
"For a long time, all I could come up with was 'Tinkle tinkle little lamb, what a great big kid I am,' " he said. "I thought that might be a little offensive. Then the night before we went into the recording studio it hit me."
Mr. Wilcox hopes to launch the potty seat within a few months, using the same Kearny housewares manufacturer that makes the step stools.
"I'm paying a little more than I would have elsewhere, but they have a lot of experience getting the material shipped out in a timely fashion," he said.
"Besides," he added, "I'd rather have control. If you have a mold and you have someone making the product overseas and the mold breaks, you don't want to be flying to China."
 
Advanced Manufacturing, Paterson
 Established 1992
 Employees: 13
 Product: Plastic bags, mostly from recycled materials
 Annual sales: Unavailable
Pressed flat and hanging on the paneled office wall, they look like championship jerseys -- blue, brown, white, black, beige, pink. But instead of numbers, they carry timeless homilies like "Thank You For Shopping With Us." For Advanced Manufacturing Inc., each plastic shopping bag represents a triumph.
Except for jobs that require intricate printing (like the pink one, emblazoned with a dragon logo and the address of a Chinese grocery store in Queens), A.M.I. makes its bags out of recycled plastic -- former detergent bottles, Chef Boy-Ar-Dee tubs, other shopping bags. Until recently, processors have been exporting most of the recyclable plastic that New Jerseyans throw away, but now the local market is expanding, thanks to increased environmental consciousness and government prodding. One new product at A.M.I., for instance, is the blue-tinted bags used in the New York City recycling program.
"Plastics have made a quantum leap in the past two years," said Frank Peluso, the supervisor of market development for the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection's division of solid and hazardous waste.
Because plastic bags are easy to make, the increased demand has triggered a glut of suppliers, many of them start-ups like A.M.I.
"It's really cutthroat," said Carla Asmar, A.M.I.'s office manager and unofficial spokeswoman. "Almost anybody who's worked behind an extruder will go out and buy one for $25,000 and say, 'I'm going to open a business.' Twelve years ago, you could walk into a grocery store and get $25 to $30 for a case of shopping bags. Now they go for $10 to $13."
Out on the factory floor, a hose sucks pellets of low-density polyethylene from a cardboard box and feeds them into a chamber, where they are heated into a jelly. A column of air forced up through the gel blows a tall plastic bubble, which is pressed flat and then reeled onto a spool. Another machine crimps and cuts the bags and cuts out the handles.
The bags that A.M.I.manufactures in this way are considerably thicker than the more crinkly high-density bags used by some supermarkets. They come 500 to a case rather than 1,000, but because they don't need to be doubled, customers consider them more efficient.
"Most people use the milk-gallon test to test a bag," Ms. Asmar said. "If you can put two in there and it doesn't break, then it's a good bag. These are good bags."
 
Cartridge Actuated Devices, Fairfield
 Established 1963
 Employees: 50
 Product: Explosive devices
 Annual sales: Less than $5 million
Whatever problems confront a manufacturer in New Jersey today, defense contractors have them in spades. C.A.D., longtime supplier to Lockheed, Martin Marietta and the U.S. Navy, has had to scramble to find peacetime uses for its pyrotechnically powered valves, cutters and thrusters. C.A.D. exploding devices are now used to put out fires (by breaking the seal on a sprinkler system), and the company president, Ralph Dodd, has high hopes for an exploding plastic bolt that he expects to be a big seller to offshore oil drillers.
"If you've got two things you want to put together and you want to be able to just break them apart, maybe at the bottom of the ocean, this is the way to do it," he said. C.A.D., tucked away behind an auto parts store off Route 46, has also begun using its lab to test other company's products.
"I don't see this stuff completely taking the place of the defense jobs, but it all depends," said Mr. Dodd, 64, who bought C.A.D. 11 years ago, "If you can click with an air-bag manufacturer, the sky's the limit."
Still, Mr. Dodd's optimism is extremely qualified. Sales are down 40 percent from five years ago, and of what's left, the fraction sold to the military has dropped from almost 90 percent to 50 percent.
The especially rapid decline of the defense industry in the Northeast has hit C.A.D. from both sides: not only are Mr. Dodd's customers disappearing, his own suppliers are moving south, driving up transportation costs. Within the past two years, Hercules, a pioneer in the state's once mighty explosives industry, and a nearby Du Pont powder plant both announced that they would close.
"We're working in a very limited market," Mr. Dodd said. "If we were making shoes or clothing it would be different. But when's the last time you bought an explosive device for your household?"
 
 Laird & Co., Scobeyville
 Established 1780
 Employees: 55
 Product: Applejack and other hard liquors; bottlers and importers of wine and other spirits.
 Annual sales: $38 million
The barrel house, stacked to the rafters with oaken kegs, still smells like an enormous wooden snifter and looks like something from a Jack Daniel's ad. But since 1978, Laird & Company, makers of the oldest registered spirit in the country, has distilled its signature applejack in North Garden, Va.
"It's just too expensive to operate in this sate," said the president, Larrie Laird, citing the high cost of environmental permits and waste-water treatment. The company, tucked away on 25 acres among the horse farms of Monmouth County, doesn't have access to a sewer system and must truck its wash water 30 miles to Rahway.
At the same time, said Mr. Laird, the eighth generation of Laird to run the business, most of the local orchards that once supplied the raw materials have been swallowed by housing developments.
"That's another reason we wouldn't make an investment here to continue distilling," he said.
Instead, Laird has become a bottler, not just of applejack but of vodka, gin, tequila, bourbon and scotch, marketed both under the Laird name and other labels. Five O'Clock vodka is the company's biggest seller. And as consumption of hard liquor has dropped, Laird has turned increasingly to importing wine from Italy and France. Mr. Laird explained that the wines, which retail for up to $30 a bottle, are a lot more profitable than low-priced spirits.
 
 Miller Berry & Sons, Port Norris
 Established 1967
 Employees: 20
 Product: Casket mattresses, elevating mechanisms
 Annual sales: About $3 million
Twenty-eight years ago, the Berry family's excelsior business was on its deathbed, unable to compete with the big loggers in Virginia. Clarence Berry called up his steadiest customer, a coffin manufacturerwho used the pine shavings to stuff his mattresses.
"I told him I had two more trailer loads left and that was it," Mr. Berry, now 68, recalled. "He said, 'You don't know anybody that makes a bed for caskets, do you? Because if we can find somebody we're gonna buy 'em.' I thought, Well hey, here's a market waiting for a producer."
Today, in a rambling complex of cinder-block buildings along a road paved with clamshells in New Jersey's semi-defunct oyster capital, Miller Berry's team of welders and assemblers turns out 4,000 casket mattresses a week.
"This is softer than what you sleep on," Mr. Berry said, interrupting a worker's stapling to pat an inch-and-a-half thick polyester pad, now the industry standard. "It's not a bed you could put in a home and have kids jump on for years at a time -- it would go all to pieces -- but you use it one time and that's all you need."
Mr. Berry ticks off with pride the celebrities who have gone off to their final rewards on a Miller Berry mattress: Richard and Pat Nixon, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Arthur Ashe.
"We were in the public eye, but you couldn't see us," he said. Since 1980, Miller Berry has also made mechanisms that raise the deceased's body in the casket for viewing, and Mr. Berry himself is responsible for several advances in the field.
"When they crank the bed up and down, you can't have any noise, any squealing, so we put nylon bushings on everything," he said. "The undertakers love it."
Miller Berry has also introduced a special mattress that absorbs up to 30 pounds of the bodily fluids that inevitably leak out after death. And the company has just started selling a wooden mattress frame in response to a Canadian environmental law that prohibits the use of steel frames for cremation.
Business, which has always been at least steady, is booming lately. Last month, Mr. Berry signed a contract with the nation's third-biggest coffin manufacturer to make 65,000 beds a year, adding about 30 percent to his annual sales. He was so inspired that he came up with a catchy new slogan for the company: "This bed is for the rest of your life."
A casket mattress, for those who can't wait until the next life to find out, really is fairly comfortable, although a metal crosspiece presses against the small of the back.
Not to worry, Mr. Berry said. "You're not really going to feel that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shopping bags, again -- Plastic is recycled at Advanced Manufacturing in Paterson. By the truckload -- Only New Jersey tomatoes are welcome at Violet Packing. Final resting place -- Workers at Miller Berry & Sons assemble a casket mattress. (Photographs by Sam D'Amico for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (72%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: HARRIS INFOSOURCE INTERNATIONAL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (72%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; SMALL BUSINESS SMALL BUSINESS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); TRENDS (89%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (85%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); LAYOFFS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); OUTSOURCING (73%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); RELOCATIONS (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (57%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (57%); WORLD WAR I (52%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY RALPH DODD (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



501 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 13; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: State's Economy Is Sleeping, And Tax Cuts Can't Wake It

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The essay "Tax Cuts: The View From Town Hall," by Mayor James E. McGreevey of Woodbridge (Soapbox, July 23), correctly points out the costs of Governor Whitman's dramatic income tax cuts. But Mr. McGreevey omits an even greater criticism of the Governor's tax policy: the cuts have failed to provide the economic benefits she promised. 
 Mrs. Whitman's ostensible purpose was rooted in vintage supply-side economic theory, to jump-start New Jersey's economy by making the state more hospitable to relocating and expanding businesses.
But unemployment in the state is now 6.8 percent, second worst of all major industrial states. The economy's modest growth since Mrs. Whitman took office is a result of the recovery from the recent recession, not of any change in income taxes.
Indeed, it is difficult to understand how the income tax cuts could ever have made a difference. Several thousand dollars in tax relief to upper-income individuals could hardly create a supply-side boom. Supply-side expansion depends on a much broader range of factors, including favorable interest rates, the skill of the work force and the condition of factories and equipment.
On the demand side, expansion will occur only with growth in demand for New Jersey goods and services. Such demand could hardly be stimulated by a tax cut that amounts to $100 or $200 for middle-class families, particularly when offset by the increased property taxes Mayor McGreevey describes.
 
DAVID R. STRICKLER
Tinton Falls

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); MAYORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); RECESSION (75%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); FAMILY (72%); TRENDS (70%); INTEREST RATES (51%); 

PERSON: JAMES E MCGREEVEY (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



502 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: VOICES: FROM THE DESK OF;
Windows 95: Hoopla To Hooopla to Hoooopla

BYLINE: By JOE QUEENAN; Joe Queenan is a Tarrytown, N.Y., writer who is never upgrading from a 386.

 BODY:
AT 12:01 a.m. on Friday, Aug. 25, the entire planet breathed a collective sigh of relief as Bill Gates Day officially came to an end. A seemingly interminable orgy of self-congratulation, masquerading as the introduction of Microsoft's new Windows 95 software, finally, mercifully reached its conclusion.
Jay Leno could now go back to being an affable talk-show host instead of a shill. The Empire State Building could return to its normal coloration. The guy who clambered down the face of a Toronto office tower clutching a Windows 95-equipped laptop could go back to his day job. Ditto the Aussie drag queen who got gussied up in a gown made entirely of CD-ROM's to help draw attention to Microsoft's sexy new product. After months and months of shameless hype, the world could now return to normal. 
 But for how long? The stunning success of the Windows 95 campaign -- perhaps $700 mllion in worldwide sales in the first 24 hours -- almost certainly means that Mr. Gates will be compelled to outdo himself the next time his company introduces a product. Moreover, the overwhelming public response to Bill Gates Day suggests that festive events will become the norm in the industry and will encourage competitors to schedule similar rollouts for new products. One can easily imagine the following marketing gambits:
* March 1996. I.B.M. introduces SOS/2, its exciting new operating system. Cognizant of the success Bill Gates had giving out free pizzas (in the United States) and free newspapers (in England) with every copy of Windows 95 sold, I.B.M. distributes free fettuccine with seven cheeses plus complimentary arugula salad to every American customer, and a year's subscription to The Economist plus a copy of "The Mill on the Floss" to every British customer. Calling and raising Microsoft, which paid $4 million for the rights to the Rolling Stones' hit "Start Me Up" when it introduced Windows 95, I.B.M. forks over $8 million for the rights to Michael Jackson's "Beat It." Microsoft, which last August became the fist company ever to have its corporate colors emblazoned on the facade of the Empire State Building, must now look on in dismay as I.B.M. rents Mount Rushmore and paints it blue for the day, then hires David Letterman, clad in a Velcro jumpsuit, to have himself shot out of a cannon and plastered all over the craggy visage of Thomas Jefferson while shrieking the 10 Best Reasons to buy SOS/2.
* May 1996. Apple introduces the Macintosh Performa 7816 CD 178MHz 1492/1776/1812/1914-1918/ 1939-1945 1-800-444-1212 (Not in Connecticut) Powerbook. Not wishing to be outdone by Microsoft and Big Blue, Apple flies every paying customer to Paris for a seven-course meal, hires Madonna and Pearl Jam to provide in-flight entertainment and pays the artist Christo to wrap the Big Apple from the Battery to the Bronx and back with a massive red plastic canvas reading:
The Apple Macintosh Performa 7816 CD 178MHz, etc. . . .
A Computer for the Rest of Us.
* June 1996. Compaq introduces its Presario Hubris by renting Belgium, asking the entire population to leave the country for the day and then holding a huge picnic for the 22 million customers who have camped out since February at CompUSA's everywhere, desperate to get first crack at its stunning new hand-held computer. The event conclues with Frank Sinatra singing "Fly Me to the Moon" as the lunar surface entirely disappears from view thanks to an eclipse specially arranged through negotiations with NASA.
* August 1996. With no Windows upgrade in sight and competitors nipping at his heels, Bill Gates decides to bankroll a huge rollout for exciting new software that enables computer users to access more than a dozen interesting typefaces.
Six hundred and seventy-seven million copies of Chicago Fonts 'n' Things/96, Version 3.1, are snapped up in the first 20 minutes after Mr. Gates -- appearing at the top of Mount Everest in the company of Jose Carreras, Placido Domingo, Luciano Pavarotti, Roseanne, Pope John Paul II, Barry Bonds, Fidel Castro, Joe Montana, Jack Nicholson, Robert Goizueta, Sting, Magic Johnson, U2 and the Mormon Tabernacle Choir -- promises that every paying customer will receive a complimentary yacht and a choice of two Michelangelo frescoes or an early Bellini. As the Atlantic and Pacific oceans become the first major bodies of water ever to be dyed the colors of a software maker, Mr. Gates, accompanied by the three remaining Beatles, Mother Teresa and Michael Jordan, blasts off for Venus, promising that the 235 million people who have camped out all summer dreaming of a chance to buy his $17.95 font product will find Microsoft's next event -- the release of Windows 98.6 -- even more stupefying.
"We've already scheduled appearances by the ghosts of Elvis Presley, Jimi Hendrix, Jim Morrison and Janis Joplin," Mr. Gates will explain to the enthralled multitude. "And, yes, we have an agreement in principle with the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse to put in an appearance. So hold onto your hats, folks. You ain't seen nothin' yet."
This, sad to say, will amost certainly be true.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (71%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP MICROSOFT CORP (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS NEW PRODUCTS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); 

PERSON: QUEENAN, JOE BILL GATES (90%); DAVID LETTERMAN (56%); JAY LENO (56%); MICHAEL JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



503 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
A Card for Borrowing From Yourself

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
SICK of paying sky-high interest on credit cards? What if you paid that interest to yourself? Sounds great, right? But what if the money for those card purchases came out of your retirement savings account?
That's what a bank, a mutual fund executive and a prize-winning economist have in mind: a credit card that lets you borrow from your retirement account at work. They consider it a natural combination, allowing individuals to draw easily on one of their biggest assets. Some others, though, wonder if people will be swept away by the convenience and tempted to deplete their retirement savings for everyday purchases. 
 "This offers a very favorable deal for consumers who can avoid the outrageous finance charges of credit card companies," said Franco Modigliani, the Nobel Prize-winning economist who is the co-inventor of the plan. "And it will encourage people to build up their savings, because the money will be much more liquid than it used to be."
Mr. Modigliani, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has studied people's savings and consumption habits over a lifetime. "People invest to build up a long-term nest egg, and every now and then, take out something for a variety of things like buying a house, credit cards and buying a car. They repay the loan and build their reserves."
Mr. Modigliani developed the idea with Francis M. Vitagliano, a veteran pension industry compliance officer, now at Scudder, Stevens & Clark, the fund company. The two were granted a patent on the idea in 1993, and they sold an exclusive license to Banc One, the huge banking company in Columbus, Ohio, which is putting together a card offering. If the bank proceeds and employers include the option in retirement plans, the card should be available next year. The Department of Labor, which regulates pensions, approved the idea in June.
Borrowing from retirement accounts is nothing new. Tax-deferred savings plans sponsored by employers, the most common of which is a 401(k), can allow participants to borrow up to 50 percent of the money in their accounts. About 70 percent of all 401(k) plans allow such loans. Employees pay themselves back with interest, at rates often lower than on other loans. Further, taking a loan from a retirement account avoids the taxes and penalties that would accompany a withdrawal before age 59 1/2.
In one sense, this credit card would simply make it easier for employees to tap credit lines. But to some, it would make it too easy to borrow, perhaps dangerously so.
"Anything that makes it easy to take money out of a plan before retirement is a mistake," said Karen Ferguson, the director of the Pension Rights Center.
The biggest risk, she said, is for someone who is laid off or switches jobs. At that point, a 401(k) loan becomes payable in full. If not paid back, the loan is considered a withdrawal, triggering income taxes and penalties for early withdrawal. If the employee can't pay the tax bill, he or she might have to liquidate the account, leaving no money for retirement. The nationwide shift from employer-paid pensions to plans funded largely by employees is already creating a generation of low-income workers who will face poverty in old age, Ms. Ferguson said.
Others contend that for every person who gets in trouble because of 401(k) loans, more people are induced to save because of the account's loan feature.
"The people who don't participate in 401(k) plans at all are those with relatively low income and relatively low savings," said Ronald L. Bush, a vice president of Access Research, a Windsor, Conn., company that specializes in retirement plans. "The loan feature lets you think about your 401(k) plan as a cushion rather than just a retirement plan. People don't save for retirement if they have no financial cushion."
The 401(k) plans with loans appear to encourage participation. According to Access Research, 78 percent of eligible employees contribute to plans with a loan feature, compared with 71 percent participation in plans without loans.
Access Research found that 20 percent of the participants in 401(k) plans that allow borrowing have a loan at any one time. The average loan balance is $6,200. Nationwide, the company estimates that $17 billion has been borrowed from 401(k) plans, 3 percent of the total amount invested in them.
"We know for a fact that people put back the money they borrow," Mr. Modigliani said. The card will have a credit limit of $10,000, far less than the hundreds of thousands of dollars that people are expected to accumulate in these accounts, he said.
The proponents also argue that the card will reduce problems for employers. "This plan will reduce expenses for corporations, which now have to have people taking installment loan applications," said Donald Auriemma, a credit card consultant who has worked on the project.
Even if these cards are a good deal for companies and employees -- a point not everyone concedes -- the question remains whether they are good public policy. The big appeal of 401(k) plans is that employees can make contributions with pretax dollars, meaning the Government collects less.
Dallas Salisbury, president of the Employee Benefits Research Institute in Washington, asked, "Did Congress want to reduce taxes to finance Grateful Dead tickets or the purchase of day-to-day consumable items?"
People can already use 401(k) loans to pay off existing credit card debt at high interest rates. A study by Dreyfus mutual funds found that the most commonly cited reason for a 401(k) loan is paying for a child's education, followed by buying a car, taking a vacation and getting married.
For such purposes, the proposed card may not be a better deal. It may carry a higher fee than current loans, and a significant portion of the interest would go to the bank, rather than into the employee's account. Alexander Goldstein, a vice president in Banc One's credit card division, said the price has not yet been determined. The bank would also earn an amount equal to roughly 1 percent of purchases from merchants that accept the card, and would return some portion of its income to the card's inventors.
Banc One is no stranger to unusual credit cards. It originally handled the processing for Merrill Lynch's Cash Management Account, the first combination of a brokerage account with a checking account and a credit card. (The account was one of the first financial products to earn a patent.)
Mr. Goldstein pointed out that many brokers were wary of that account at first, because it made withdrawing money from an investment account so easy.
"You wound up with people sending more money to their brokerage account, because they knew they could get it back when they wanted it," Mr. Goldstein said. "The same will be true for their 401(k) plans."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "401(k) loans" shows average 401(k) loan and account balance and percentage of plans that allow loans. (Source: Access Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (69%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: BANC ONE CORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); DEUTSCHE ASSET MANAGEMENT SCUDDER INVESTMENTS (54%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANC ONE CORP MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%); OHIO, USA (69%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS CREDIT CARDS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); PATENTS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); APPROVALS (64%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL; MODIGLIANI, FRANCO (PROF); VITAGLIANO, FRANCIS M FRANCO MODIGLIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



504 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT: ON THE JOB;
Taking a Meeting in Your Jammies

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
When The New York Times asked readers who work at home about their secret vices, the breadth of confessions was formidably wide. Indeed, if time is money, the ship of state is leaking gross national product in the form of timeouts for baking cookies, playing Microsoft Solitaire on the computer, tuning in to the perversion du jour on the television talk shows and getting the laundry lemony fresh. Here, a selection:
It's dial V for Vengeance for Renee Marks Cohen, a freelance medical writer and editor from White Plains. Oh, sure, sometimes she works while lying in bed, surrounded by reference materials. And sometimes she works while not fully clothed. She even treats herself to lunch at uncommon hours, like 10:30 A.M. or 4 P.M. 
 Once in a while, she says, she indulges herself by making faces at clients while talking to them on the phone. But she has something special for those solicitors who call up at the most inconvenient times: when they ask for a telephone number, she gives them her fax-dedicated number. Tweet are the uses of adversity.
The fashion trade isn't going to like this one. Kim Goad of Baltimore writes:
"While dress codes in corporate offices seem to be getting more and more casual (at least on Fridays), I don't think they'll ever come down to my standards. As the owner of a home-based publishing company, I sometimes wear my pajamas until the late hours of the afternoon. It gives me a certain feeling of power when I talk to my corporate clients on the phone, knowing they are wearing power suits, and I'm 'lounging' in my jammies and footies."
Ponder this: you place a long distance call while the night rate is in effect, but while you're talking, the day rate takes effect. Does the phone company charge you the day rate, the night rate or a little of each?
The search for personal contact brings answers to such questions into the life of Patricia Fox-Sheinwold, who writes at home in Manhattan. "The only noise I ever hear is inside my head," she says, "so to distract or amuse myself I make phone calls for things to be sent to me, like the Manhattan bus and subway maps or the latest postal rate sheet.
"By doing this, I not only get to hear the sound of a human voice but acquire some necessary information."
Don't talk about guilt to Ellen A. Kaplan of Rockville, Md.
"After four years of being self-employed and working out of my home, I confess -- I have little conscience left," she writes. "I used to justify going grocery shopping, playing golf and seeing a movie during the day as a way to save time and money. After all, checkout lines are shorter and greens fees and movies are cheaper during the day. More important, a break from work, I claimed, allowed me to recharge my creative batteries. Having a good reason assuaged my guilt over abandoning the 9-to-5 workday, just as did telling my parents I cut class for a humanitarian reason: to care for a sick friend who insisted that only I could make her feel better.
"Fortunately, justifications and I parted company about a year after I started my own communications firm. Although I still have occasional pangs of guilt, there's nothing like shooting a good round of golf to ease my pain, or calling my clients and friends at their offices to tell them I did."
Still, David Gottlieb of Scarsdale, N.Y., argues that guilt is a cornerstone of the work-at-home life. "After 30 years of home working, I can confidently assert that the most secret vice is a delicate balance of freedom and guilt," he writes.
"It is simply the knowledge that the work is there, just a few steps away. It is there, and you can go consume it and be consumed by it at, say, 3 A.M., and then feel perfectly justified at lying down at, say, 3 P.M., for a few winks interrupted by the dinner bell.
"It's not that you regularly function in this way, but the knowledge that you can" is delicious, Mr. Gottlieb says. "It's all a human can ask for."
Ron Safier runs his travel agency, Global Travel Planners, from a condo on the slopes of Heavenly Valley in Lake Tahoe, Nev. Runs it, that is, when the snows don't beckon.
He writes, "My worst workday habit is to set my work aside, walk out my back door and put on my skis after a fresh dumping of powder."
Every once in a while, diversion pays dividends. Take the case of Laurie Lewis of Manhattan, who routinely puts off beginning work to do a crossword puzzle.
"My vice isn't a secret; most of my friends know about it," she writes. "One of them called me this January and asked if I could help the editor of a magazine he writes for. The magazine features a crossword puzzle contest, and the previous puzzle preparer was no longer available. Could I create puzzles as well as solve them?
Ms. Lewis agreed, and in this way, she writes, "My vice has turned into a vocation!"

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WORKING AT HOME HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); WRITERS (75%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (75%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WORKPLACE DRESS CODES (71%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); PUBLISHING (70%); POSTAL RATES (62%); 

PERSON: VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE LAURIE LEWIS (56%); DAVID GOTTLIEB (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



505 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS: FUNDS WATCH;
Better Understanding of Bonds

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
THE language of bond investing can be daunting. But one term -- duration -- is worth taking the time to understand.
Individuals typically use "maturity" to judge how a bond reacts to changing interest rates. But maturity measures only how much time elapses until a bond matures and its principal is returned. There's more than that to interest rate risk. 
 Fund managers and other professionals use duration as a yardstick for interest rate risk; the shorter the duration, the less rate risk. And that term is creeping into common use.
Even the Investment Company Institute, the trade group for mutual funds, is recommending that duration be used to improve risk disclosure to investors.
Duration figures sometimes appear in funds' annual or semiannual reports; if not, investors can call the fund companies and ask for that information. The other option is to look at reports published by the data services of Morningstar and Value Line.
Fidelity Investments began publishing duration figures for its bond funds in the spring. Its guide for investors explains the concept this way. Along with how long until a bond matures, duration takes into account how often income is received. The shorter the duration, the faster bondholders get their money back, meaning less volatility.
In the Fidelity example, you own a $1,000 20-year Treasury bond with a 7.5 percent coupon. Every six months you receive $37.50 in interest. That means with each payment the total amount of cash you are owed -- and have at risk in the meantime -- is reduced by $37.50. So the maturity of the bond may be 20 years but its duration is about 10.3 years.
For comparison's sake, look at a 20-year zero-coupon bond, which pays no interest until it matures. Because there is no cash flow, both the maturity and the duration of the zero coupon is about 20 years. And the zero is about twice as volatile as the comparable Treasury, meaning its share price moves drastically when interest rates change.
Duration and bond prices move in lockstep with interest rates. A bond with a duration of seven years would gain 7 percent of its price when interest rates moved up one percentage point. The same bond would lose 7 percent when rates moved down that amount.
Duration is not always exact because assumptions often need to be made when bonds can be called, mortgages prepaid or interest rates changed.
T. Rowe Price has published a free, 17-page guide to help investors choose a bond fund. For a copy, call (800) 541-8820.
 
Habits of Highly Effective Managers
Peter Lynch's words may be the Holy Grail to some fund investors, but apart from him there's a small coterie of superstar managers at no-load funds, says Ken Gregory, editor of the No-Load Fund Analyst in San Francisco.
On his list are Hakan Castegren of Harbor International, Dick Weiss of the Strong Common Stock and Opportunity funds, Michael Price of the Mutual Series funds, Foster Freiss of Brandywine, Mason Hawkins of Longleaf Partners and Shelby Davis of Selected American Shares.
What does it take to be a superstar manager? For starters, a great long-term record -- at least a decade -- Mr. Gregory says. Moreover, despite wildly different investing styles, the six share some personality traits, which might not make them good party guests but do make them great stock pickers. All are passionate, energetic and obsessive about investing, Mr. Gregory wrote in a recent report. They are confident and independent thinkers. They are skeptics who can learn from their mistakes.
They take the long view and don't speculate on what could happen. None of them use technical analysis, like short-term market movements, because they consider investor behavior irrelevant.
Instead, they get to know a company's management well and treat those managers as investment partners. Such conviction allows these managers to take sizable stakes and to stick with a company even when the going gets tough.
Finally, all are keenly aware of risk, though they avoid it in different ways, whether buying stocks at a discount, staying away from "fad" stocks or shunning countries with social and economic concerns that constitute a high risk, Mr. Gregory wrote.
 
Chipping Away at Investors' Protection
Just after Congress passed securities legislation that would limit shareholders' rights to restitution, Representative Jack Fields, a Republican from Texas, introduced another bill that would nip at investor protections.
Called the Markets Deregulation and Liberalization Act of 1995, the Fields measure would eliminate oversight of mutual funds at the state level, as well as state regulation of financial planners and investment advisers. It would also reduce the statutory authority of the Securities and Exchange Commission to protect investors.
The bill is being vigorously opposed by Representative Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, the ranking Democrat on the House Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance. The legislation "declares war on the investor protection system of our Federal and state securities laws," he wrote recently.
The proposed changes at the S.E.C., Mr. Markey contends, would undermine the agency's ability to police the securities markets effectively.
 
This Year's Top-Selling Fund
The top-selling fund so far this year is Fidelity Advisor Growth Opportunity, with a net inflow of $1.9 billion through June, according to Fund Decoder, a New York City newsletter on the fund industry. It is followed by Seligman Communications and Information ($1.7 billion), Fidelity Blue Chip Growth ($1.6 billion), Vanguard Index 500 ($1.5 billion) and Fidelity Equity-Income II ($1.3 billion).
 
How Bond Market Investors Lost Their Cool
Individuals are becoming smarter about investing: true or false? False, if you look at what they did in last year's bond market.
Investors lost their cool when the market took a tumble, according to a study by David L. Babson & Company, an investment counseling firm in Cambridge, Mass.
Fears of rising inflation and the Federal Reserve Board's efforts to keep inflation in check pushed long-term bond prices down 26 percent from October 1993 to the fall of 1994. The decline was intensified by heavy selling of bond funds after rising interest rates had depressed prices -- meaning it was the worst possible time for individual investors to sell.
And when bonds looked the worst, individual investors retreated from the market -- just when they should have been buying. That pattern reversed only after the bond market staged a strong recovery.
The question remains whether investors will react in a similar fashion the next time the stock market takes a tumble, the Babson analysts wrote. Because the flood of money into stock funds in recent years has been the primary force behind the market's advance, any major slowdown in stock fund purchases could intensify the market decline, as it did in the bond market last year.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Panic Selling" shows price of 30-year Treasury bond futures from 1993 to 1995 and net inflows and outflows of bond funds from 1993 to 1995. (Source: David L. Babson & Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (91%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (57%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (57%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INTEREST RATES MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); BONDS (93%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (89%); BOND FUNDS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); PUBLISHING (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; GREGORY, KEN KEN GREGORY (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



506 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Sarah Labaree and Craig Churchill

 BODY:
Sarah Calkins Labaree, the daughter of Prof. and Mrs. Benjamin W. Labaree of Amesbury, Mass., was married yesterday to Craig Farren Churchill, the son of Mr. and Mrs. John S. Churchill of Atlanta. The Rev. John D. Eusden, an emeritus professor of religion at Williams College, performed the waterside ceremony at the bride's parents' summer home in Vinalhaven, Me.
Ms. Labaree, 30, is keeping her name. Until recently she was the manager of the basic education project for the United States Agency for International Development in Pretoria, South Africa. Next month she is to become a senior analyst at Abt Associates, a consulting company, in Washington. She graduated from Williams and received a master's degree in international development from Tufts University. Her father is an emeritus professor of history and environmental studies at Williams. 
 Mr. Churchill, 31, also graduated from Williams. He is the coordinator of the Micro Financial Services Network in Washington, which provides loans and financial services in developing countries. He is enrolled in a master's degree program in international development at Clark University and is a Fulbright scholar studying the growth of small businesses established by women in black townships in South Africa. His mother, Robbin Churchill, is a caterer in Atlanta and a partner in Global Specialty Foods there. His father is a partner in Lamalie Amrop International, an executive search company, in Atlanta.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: ABT ASSOCIATES INC (57%); MICRO FINANCIAL INC (56%); GLOBAL SPECIALTY CONTRACTORS (55%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (90%); MAINE, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MICROFINANCE (72%); HISTORY (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); CATERING SERVICES (65%); 

PERSON: LABAREE, SARAH CALKINS; CHURCHILL, CRAIG FARREN BENJAMIN W LABAREE (76%); JOHN S CHURCHILL (71%); CRAIG CHURCHILL (55%); SARAH CALKINS LABAREE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



507 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS: VOWS;
Ruth Allen, Jonathan Cox

BYLINE: By LOIS SMITH BRADY

 BODY:
THE first thing Jonathan William Cox, 28, noticed about Ruth Barnett Allen, also 28, was her hands: they were petite and delicate -- and fit perfectly into his.
He found this out the first time he took her into his arms, and it happened long before their first date. They met in a ballroom dancing class at the gymnasiumlike DanceSport studio on the Upper West Side in February 1993. Mr. Cox, now a graduate student in business at Columbia University, had enrolled with an old friend from high school, Darby Harper. They signed up for the class because, as Ms. Harper recalled, "We were both going through a real dry spell at the time, love-life-wise." 
 Ms. Allen, who is now the assistant director of development for Lincoln Center Theater, signed up for the class to improve her dancing. No ulterior motives for her.
"At the time, I was working for the American Ballet Theater," she said. "So I was totally immersed in dancing. Ballet is very romantic and it's all about partnering, so here I was in my dance class, trying to be the next ballerina in my mind."
The 20 or so students regularly switched partners while learning classics like the fox trot, the merengue, the rumba. Ms. Harper described the mix of students this way: "A lot of the men were in their late 40's and early 50's, but the women were all young urbanites -- sophisticated, gorgeous women. And, of course, Ruth was one of them."
Ms. Allen remembers that Mr. Cox was not the most impressive dancer. He occasionally stepped on her toes or turned her hand as if it were a stubborn doorknob. But he quickly became her favorite partner. "He had these really beautiful blue eyes and he wore a suit, which I always think is so handsome," she recalled.
Mr. Cox also developed a crush on Ms. Allen, who was described by many as a formal person: she reads Amy Vanderbilt, wears pearls and gets dressed up for everything from lunch with her parents to airplane trips. "She struck me as incredibly beautiful and also a little bit old-fashioned," he said.
Because students rarely speak while dancing, except to mutter things like "quick, quick, slow" or "one, two, one, two," the couple didn't actually talk for a while. In the fourth class, he finally got up the nerve to hand her his business card.
"He asked me to call him," Ms. Allen said. "I was so nervous. We were strangers. All I knew about him was his name and what he looked like. Finally, I called and his secretary asked, 'May I tell him who's calling?' And I said, 'It's Ruth Allen from ballroom-dancing class.' It was an exercise in total humiliation."
A few days later, they went out for margaritas; four months later, they moved in together, and a year after that, he proposed over dinner at the Breakers Hotel in Palm Beach, Fla. They celebrated by ordering ice-cream sundaes from room service, calling all their friends and dancing around the room.
Then they went their separate ways. "Jonathan spent the rest of the weekend on the golf course," Ms. Allen recalled. "And I spent it on the beach reading bridal magazines."
They were married on Aug. 19 in another hotel, the St. Regis in Manhattan. Like the bride, the wedding was formal and classic in style. The men wore black tie, and many of the women wore pearls.
"Ruth is very good at art and culture and ideas," said Audrey Allen, an older sister of the bride who is a student at the London School of Economics. "If I had to predict how she would meet someone, it would have been at the opening of some big exhibit, but it's so sweet that they met ballroom dancing. She wasn't in a great dress, holding a pose; she was tripping over her feet, which is what ballroom dancing is all about."
On the wedding program, there was an illustration of a couple dancing and a note to the guests that told where the bride and the bridegroom had met. This was the last line: "While we are not great dancers, we have become wonderful partners."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ruth Allen, Jonathan Cox; St. Regis Hotel, Manhattan, Aug. 19 (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (56%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (56%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS DANCE (93%); DANCE EDUCATION (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCERS (76%); DANCE COMPANIES (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, RUTH BARNETT (RUTH BARNETT COX); COX, JONATHAN WILLIAM RUTH BARNETT ALLEN (96%); JONATHAN WILLIAM COX (89%); DARBY HARPER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



508 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Insecurity Council;
Isolationism Makes China the World's Problem

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
SUDDENLY, it seems, China is the world's troublemaker.
 For two months it played with the life of Harry Wu, before setting the human rights advocate free last week so that Washington would not embarrass China by keeping Hillary Rodham Clinton from a conference on women in Beijing next week. 
 For most of this year China, bent on preventing any kind of protests, has been backtracking on promises to let that conference be a free exchange of ideas, most recently by harassing thousands of foreigners with denied or delayed visas and repressive regulations. More ominously, it has scared the Taiwanese with missile tests and military maneuvers for weeks. And its fleet keeps the Philippines and Vietnam perennially on edge.
 All of this begins to look like a new cold war, Chinese style, with bouts of harsh public bullying and almost continuous if discreet applications of pressure. Examples are not hard to find here in the halls of an institution created 50 years ago on the eve of the first East-West superpower conflict. Where once Khrushchev banged his shoe, now Chinese diplomats police the nooks and crannies for possible friends of Taiwan or traces of the Dalai Lama's Tibetan supporters. Where once a stolid Andrei Gromyko delivered Soviet party-line prevarications, immovable Chinese hold the line in the Security Council against most punitive measures against rogue nations, while quietly assembling a new anti-Western bloc in the new East.
 That much of China's behavior seems as pointlessly petty as it is threatening reflects a widening gulf of understanding that could make a new cold war as dangerous as the last. China sees enemies everywhere; the West founders in response to a period of political uncertainty. What missile crisis, what Bay of Pigs could be born of this mistrust? Many who know China well say this is not the time to walk away but rather to engage the Chinese, however tricky the task may be.
 The first step is understanding their motives. China is the world's most populous country with growing economic as well as military power. It holds the only permanent Asian seat on the Security Council. But for all its size and power it is still an insecure developing nation with huge social problems, facing a leadership struggle with the eclipse of an aging Deng Xiaoping. And it wears a bristling nationalism on its shoulder that may be fed by that struggle.
 At the United Nations, the Chinese are usually isolated and self-absorbed, and their actions are a clue to their priorities. Internationalists they are not, unlike the Soviets. On the Security Council, a diplomat said, "China is just not part of the party." Silent on most issues, the Chinese weigh in only when they see themselves or their principles threatened. They don't like sanctions, embargoes, human rights monitors or peace-enforcement operations, for such precedents could someday be used against them. In the larger General Assembly, they have come to form a core around which an unlikely coalition, including India and Iran and sometimes Mexico, clusters to fend off perceived threats to national sovereignty.
 China is not always alone in self-imposed withdrawal. Other Asian nations maintain low profiles at the United Nations, an unfortunate trend given Asia's rising power, and growing concern about China. Ismail Razali, Malaysia's widely engaged representative, says he understands the symptoms. The United Nations, he says, is "diminished in stature and regulated by the great powers, who seem to be disciplining the developing countries." It is a European club that now includes Russia, he added.
 China gets away with browbeating the United Nations for a number of reasons. Many nations including the United States can and do put intense pressure on the Secretary General to protect their interests or promote their candidates for jobs within the system. China, with a Security Council veto, has power to thwart the selection -- or, in the present case of Boutros Boutros-Ghali, the re-election -- of a Secretary General. It must also be courted by the other four permanent Council members to insure that China does no worse than remain on the sidelines when the "European" majority rams through a resolution.
 There is also history. From the 1949 Communist revolution until 1971, China was frozen out of the United Nations by the intransigence of the United States and its allies, who for years backed Taiwan (still viewed by China as a renegade province) in its claim to the Chinese seat in the organization. That period is not easily forgotten, not only by the Chinese but also by other developing nations who think of it as a sustained display of American arrogance. An Asian diplomat said that the feeling is now beginning to dissipate as Taiwan becomes a major investor in many poor countries.
 At George Washington University, Dean Harry Harding, who has written books on China and the world, says the Chinese seem willing to make sacrifices to be part of international economic institutions. But, operating on a 19th century concept of the sovereign state, they find it difficult to join other systems, like arms control regimes. "The bottom line is that they are reluctant participants in all of this," Mr. Harding said. "They are moving in the right direction, but they still have a long way to go."
 Waiting for them seems likely to have its continuing frustrations, but diplomats see few alternatives to patience, however taxed it may be. During one busy week when the Chinese silently delayed for days an action that displeased them in the Security Council, the most polished of delegates finally cracked, and he blurted out: "Are we waiting for instructions from a fortune cookie?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chinese soldiers view Beijing museum photo of nuclear test. (Associated Press)(pg.1); Chinese consular officials in New York take visa applications for women's conference. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg.6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); TIBET (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); TIBET (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); BULLYING (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WOMEN (73%); POLITICS (63%); TRENDS (61%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DALAI LAMA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



509 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Yes, a Small Town Is Different

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS 

 BODY:
THE nation's center of population is a device that only a statistician could contrive -- the pivot at which a perfectly level map of the United States would balance if everyone weighed the same.
 It's fitting that the pivot turns out to be Steelville, Mo., a town of fewer than 2,000 people that grew up around a gristmill in the 19th century, thrived until the railroad and the Interstate passed it by and then reinvented itself by remodeling downtown storefronts to evoke a bygone era when the small town was synonymous with American values. 
 For two centuries, small towns have loomed large in the nation's iconography. They were idealized havens where common goals could be reconciled with rugged individualism, nurturing places where people depended on their neighbors and where boys like Lyndon Johnson or Richard Nixon or Jimmy Carter or Ronald Reagan or Bill Clinton could grow up to be President.
 But for all its mythical appeal, Main Street now goes pretty much one way.
 Most Americans live in metropolises with a million or more people. The population of towns outside metropolitan areas and with under 10,000 people has shriveled. As recently as 1970, 20 million Americans, or about 1 in 10, still lived in those towns. By 1990, under 16 million, or about 1 in 16, did.
 Among them were boys and girls who might grow up to be President. Also, a teen-ager, Susan Smith, who felt so sheltered and found such strength in Union, S.C. (population 9,840), that she even refused to venture off to college. Last month, a jury of her neighbors spared Susan Smith the death penalty and sentenced her instead to life in prison for drowning her two young sons.
 Sherwood Anderson, the author of scorching novels about small town provincialism, wrote decades ago that "if some of the color has gone, the towns tending to be more and more of one pattern," Main Street's relentless grip on the minds of the townspeople had dissipated, too.
 Measured against small-town hopes and fears, America remains a palette of diversity, though. Largely unnoticed behind gingerbread facades until a neighbor runs for President or commits a horrific crime, nearly 16 million Americans in 11,897 small towns quietly defy the small town archetype.
 They are older, whiter, poorer and more dependent on Government subsidies than most other Americans, increasingly so. Many more 18-to-35-year-olds are leaving than moving in.
 Compared with metropolitan cities, suburbs and small cities with 10,000 to 50,000 residents, small towns have the highest proportion of mobile home residents (11 percent) and of people who have lived in the same home for at least two decades (22 percent). They also have the highest proportion of people who were born in this country (98 percent, largely of English, German and Scandinavian origin).
 Disproportionately, too, small-town households are more dependent on welfare (10 percent) and Social Security (35 percent) from a Government that many say they mistrust. Small towns have the highest proportion of poor families with children. Also, a higher percentage of single mothers, both black and white, than metropolitan cities.
 That profile, drawn from the census and from the National Opinion Research Center's General Social Survey, sets small towns apart from cities, suburbs and metropolitan areas in the social as well as the demographic measures that it portrays.
 Jane Jacobs defined a town as "a settlement that does not generate its growth from its own local economy." As factories close, small towns fit that definition more than ever. They have the highest proportion of unemployed people and of high school dropouts.
 Small cities may be even more socially conservative than small towns, but, as George Orwell once wrote, "public opinion, because of the tremendous urge to conformity in gregarious animals, is less tolerant than any system of law." In small towns, there is less public, but more opinion.
 More than people in other places, small-town residents supported George Bush in 1992, favor the death penalty for murder (88 percent), attend church weekly, oppose adultery and pornography (though 1 in 25, the most anywhere, said they had sex for pay within the last year). They are more likely to spend evenings with neighbors, but the least inclined to trust people.
 Small-town residents were most likely to describe themselves as very happy but least likely to say they were happily married. They were most likely to have been beaten as children and most likely to maintain that bringing children into this world is unfair. But they say that having children is the main purpose of marriage and that children are life's greatest joy.
 More than anywhere else, people (40 percent of them) described daily life as dull, which helps explain why the younger ones often leave and the others stay.
 Community may now manifest itself in the suburban shopping mall, the neighborhood bodega, behind gated private enclaves and on the Internet, but the mythical appeal of small towns endures. Fully 33 percent of big-city residents, 38 percent of suburbanites and 87 percent of the people in cities with 10,000 to 50,000 people described the place they live as a small town.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Charlie's Barber Shop in Ringgold, Ga., the prices are low and the rules are clear. Sandra Soard is the barber, Frank Young the customer. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)(pg.1); Sunapee, N.H., pop. 2,607 Although the homes here are a bit larger than those in the typical small town (5.8 rooms vs. 5.3), their price tags are substantially larger. Sunapee houses were worth, on average, $141,230 in 1990, almost three times the $48,503 for all small-town houses. The nearby ski slopes may drive up real estate prices, but tourism provides good jobs. Households here had an average income of $37,272 in 1990; all small towns averaged $27,386. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg.5); Ringgold, Ga., pop. 1,663 The median age here is 35.6 years, older than the 33.3 for all small towns. So it should not be a surprise to hear that 39 percent of Ringgold's households receive a Social Security check, more than the average for all small towns, 35 percent, and the 26 percent nationwide. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)(pg.5); Velarde, N.M., pop. 3,243 In 1990, 27 percent of the town's residents were living below the poverty level, a figure worse than that for all small towns (18 percent) and the nation (13 percent). Velarde's unemployment rate, 10.9 percent back then, was above the small-town total, 7.5 percent, and the 6.3 percent nationwide. (Matthew McVay for The New York Times)(pg.5); Auto repair, Sunapee style. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg.5)
 
Graphs: "Life's Contradactions Find Even Little Places" shows survey findings for small-town residents and all Americans. "Small towns" shows number of towns with populations of less than 10,000 that are not suburbs. (pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SENTENCING (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); TRENDS (71%); ADOLESCENTS (69%); MOBILE HOMES (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); WRITERS (62%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (62%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (77%); BILL CLINTON (56%); RICHARD NIXON (52%); JIMMY CARTER (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



510 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 4; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
The Servant Class Is at the Counter

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
AS the gap between the working poor and the working rich grows, the servant class is making a comeback of sorts.
Servants haven't disappeared. They just moved out. 
 "The servant class is all around us," said Phyllis Palmer, a history professor at George Washington University who wrote "Domesticity and Dirt," a 1989 study of housewives and their servants in the years between the world wars. "They just aren't on the household payroll. They've been outsourced."
 Until World War II, middle-class American families typically had one or more servants to help around the house. In 1940, the Bureau of Labor Statistics counted 2.6 million domestic servants, almost one job in 20. Now, cleaners, cooks and others working in private homes account for less than one job in 145. It may seem that hardly anyone has servants except for the very rich and the professional couples in big cities who hire an au pair to watch their small children.
 But today the family cook works at McDonald's, Domino's or one of those those delis that deliver dinner to the overworked middle class families of the 90's in which mothers, single or married, typically work full time outside the home.
 The daughters and granddaughters and other successors of maids who cleaned, ironed and washed windows in an era when most mothers were homemakers is now more likely to come in once a week and to be on the payroll not of the family, but of Merry Maids. Just as likely, Professor Palmer says, the maid now works for a janitorial service, spending her nights cleaning office buildings.

 
 
At the Center
 And the nanny has been replaced by the employees of the day care center. Among preschool children, fewer than 1 in 13 whose mother works outside the home is cared for by a nanny.
 As the servant class has moved from private homes to the payrolls of businesses, the percentage of workers in such jobs has increased, too. One useful measure is restaurant employment: in 1964, 1.7 million Americans worked in eating and drinking establishments, and in 1994, 7.1 million did; the total workforce had not quite doubled in that period.
 Lawrence Mishel, a labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington, said the growth of personal-services jobs was being fueled in part by the rising incomes of the top 20 percent of the population, the rich and the burgeoning upper middle class who have more money to pay for personal services from by-the-pound laundry service to dog walkers in the city (and, in the suburbs, services that remove the family dog's droppings from the yard).
 People buy these services when they want, cutting them off when money is tight, and leave the frustrating problem of calculating withholding taxes to someone else. (Domestic servants were not covered by Social Security until 1950, and many are still cheated out of these benefits. And the minimum wage did not apply to domestics until 1974.)
 Indeed, the families that pay the servant class's salaries are, in effect, treating the workers in the same way that large corporations are treating them. The technique, called outsourcing, also eliminates paid vacations and medical insurance, and may avoid the taxes that finance Social Security, disability and unemployment benefits.
By replacing the family cook with take-out food, a working parent can achieve the goals of simplicity, flexibility and lower cost, avoiding paperwork and social insurance taxes. (Of course, these circumstances exact a price on home life: less time with children, more exhaustion, dustballs and cold dinners.)
 While servants have always been the most exploited of workers, some figures suggest that that they were better off economically as household employees.
 Consider the family cook. Books on the etiquette of hiring servants indicate that in major East Coast cities in 1910, a cook typically earned $10 a week. Adjusted for inflation, that is about $145 today. But back then there was no income tax, no Social Security, unemployment or disability tax. To net $145 a week in 1995, a fast-food worker needs to gross about $170, which happens to be what 40 hours at the minimum wage totals.
 The fast-food worker probably commutes to work, so keeping his or her job means at least $2.50 a day for subway or bus fare. Thus the net cash from a full-time fast-food job at the minimum wage is about $132.50 a week, or about 8.6 percent less than the 1910 household cook's weekly pay.
 Out of that pay, the outsourced servant has to eat and pay for housing, the only two benefits that came with the live-in cook's job in 1910.
 Chloe E. Bird, a sociologist at the Health Institute at New England Medical Center who has studied servants, says the shift from household servants to outsourced servants grew in part from the new science of management that developed with the industrial era. After World War I, the field of home economics arose, with girls taught in school how to organize a family budget and a pantry.
 Professor Palmer notes that machines also began to replace domestic labor, with vacuum cleaners, gas stoves, electric refrigerators and, in the 1930's, automatic washing machines, substituting for maids in many homes.
 And while management and machines made housework more efficient, corporations began finding ways to increase the productivity of these workers, which earned them profits. A cook for a family of four, for example, prepared 84 meals a week for a family of four, assuming they always ate at home. A cook at McDonald's is often paid less but can turn out hundreds of meals in a day. That's productivity.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Seven household servants, in Wisconsin around 1905. (State Historical Society of Wisconsin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS561720 JANITORIAL SERVICES (54%); SIC8744 FACILITIES SUPPORT MANAGEMENT SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRY MAIDS LP (54%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (58%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (58%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; DOMESTIC SERVICE FAMILY (90%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); PERSONAL SERVICES (88%); HISTORY (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); PARENTS (76%); DOGS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); OUTSOURCING (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BUILDING & FACILITIES SERVICES (75%); LABOR FORCE (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); PET CARE SERVICES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); CHILD CARE (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SUBURBS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); STATISTICS (69%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); PUBLIC POLICY (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY PHYLLIS PALMER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



511 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: The Clintons Back Parley On Women

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: JACKSON, Wyo., Aug. 26

 BODY:
Celebrating women's suffrage in the first place in the world to grant it, President Clinton today denounced efforts to portray the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women as a radical, anti-family event, and he and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, defended her decision to lead the American delegation as an attempt to improve the lot of women worldwide.
In their most extensive remarks on Mrs. Clinton's participation in the conference in Beijing next month, the President and First Lady went out of their way to emphasize the diverse, bipartisan makeup of the official American delegation. And without citing China by name, Mr. Clinton made it clear that many nations still have a long way to go in assuring basic rights for women. 
 Many Republicans in Congress have opposed American participation in the conference and Mrs. Clinton's attendance in particular, because of China's violations of human rights and because of the conference's expected stand on such issues as abortion. But Mr. Clinton dismissed such arguments as demagogic and beside the point.
"One of the most troubling things to me about our politics today in America is that everything gets turned into just another version of the same old political fight," Mr. Clinton told a rally organized by the Wyoming League of Women Voters and other groups to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the ratification of the 19th Amendment, which gave all American women the right to vote 51 years after Wyoming had already done so as a territory.
"All these issues seem to be torn like Silly Putty into extremes, so now there is this huge effort in America to try to convince the American people that this conference is somehow anti-family, and that we're sending some sort of radical delegation there," he said.
"Why? Not because it's true, but because it furthers the almost addictive, almost narcotic drive among some elements in our society to take every single issue and use it as a cause for division among our people when we need to be united."
Instead, Mr. and Mrs. Clinton said, the conference is about the most basic issues of concern to women and families everywhere: adequate health care, economic opportunity and political rights. Mrs. Clinton listed much of the delegation, which includes former Gov. Thomas Kean, the New Jersey Republican, and Susan Weld, the wife of Gov. William Weld, Republican of Massachusetts, in an effort to show it was not some liberal cabal.
"And however anyone might try to paint this conference," Mr. Clinton said, "the truth is it is true blue to families -- to supporting them, to conserving them, to valuing them."
He said that the United States could learn lessons from other countries, and that he would establish an interagency task force to carry out any "good ideas" that might come out the conference.
The White House announced on Friday that Mrs. Clinton would serve as honorary chairwoman of the American delegation, one day after China expelled the American human rights advocate Harry Wu on espionage charges. Today's event had been long planned, and officials said Mrs. Clinton was glad to have the announcement of her role in the conference out of the way so she could elaborate on her reasons for going.
The trip will be one of the First Lady's most high-profile appearances in months, but she left the political infighting to the President today and was much more circumspect in her comments, repeatedly emphasizing the nonthreatening motherhood themes of the meeting.
The conference, she said, will raise awareness about the challenges and burdens women face and advance their interests.
Women voters are an important constituency for Mr. Clinton, and one whose support his fledgling campaign is working hard to retain next year. Since 1964, women have outnumbered men among the American electorate, and they constituted 54 percent of the vote in 1992.
But, Mrs. Clinton noted, only 45 percent of eligible women voted in the 1994 election, and the Administration is hoping to boost that turnout next year. Today's appearance, featuring a rousing performance by the Cow Patsys, a singing, fiddling trio of women, had all the feel of a campaign rally, with the Teton mountain range a perfect backdrop against a cloudless sky.
Mr. Clinton recited his history as the son and grandson of working women in the 1940's, and both Clintons recited Wyoming's pioneering history. While some other American states and cities allowed women to vote in school board and some other local elections earlier, Wyoming is regarded as the first jurisdiction in the world to grant women a general right to vote, in 1869, and Jackson became the first municipality in the world with an all-female government, in 1920.
The state's legacy is commemorated in its motto, "The Equality State" and in its official seal, which features the image of a woman with broken chains on her wrists, holding a banner.
But the territorial legislators' decision to grant women the vote was born partly of old-fashioned expediency. At the time, men outnumbered women here by about 7 to 1, and the legislators saw women's suffrage as a way to attract more women and families as settlers.
In his weekly radio address today, Mr. Clinton made another pitch for protecting the nation's natural wonders from Congressional budget cuts or unwise private development. He once again criticized the 1873 Mining Law that he said allows claims to be staked and mined on Federal land "while giving virtually nothing back to the American people who make it possible."
The President acknowledged that some Federal environmental regulations needed streamlining or simplifying. "Do we need reforms? Yes," he said. "Should we reverse course? Not on your life."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Performers awaiting their turn watched rehearsals for the opening ceremonies of the Non-Governmental Organizations Forum on Women, which begins on Wednesday in a suburb of Beijing. The forum is a companion ot the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, from Sept. 4 to 15. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (94%); WYOMING, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; UNITED NATIONS CONFERENCE ON WOMEN; ABORTION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS WOMEN (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



512 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-10
 
NEW ETHNIC CLEANSING PHASE
A process in which Croatian refugees from Serb-held areas of Bosnia are taking over the homes of Serbs who fled as Croatia retook land within its borders marks the end of multi-ethnicity there. 1
 

Croatia's leader vowed to recapture a remaining Serb-held enclave. 8
 
A protest by French artists is seeking strong action on Bosnia. 9
 
PRESSURE TO END CUBA EMBARGO
A new element is being added to the debate over the embargo on Cuba, imposed on ideological grounds, as businesses contend that the ban on trade is causing them to lose out on business opportunities there. 1
 
ARMY ROLE IN GUATEMALA PEACE
The Guatemalan military has increasingly been on the defensive as its tactics have been revealed, but it still is a major element in trying to shape peace, and its future role is a difficult issue. 6
 
SEEKING JUSTICE IN SOUTH AFRICA
More than a year after South Africa's first nonracial elections, the country is still struggling with setting up a mechanism to expose the brutality carried out for three decades in apartheid's name. 3
 
The percentage of women in legislatures internationally is down. 10
 
Canadian Indians are trying to retake a piece of sacred land. 4
 
National 12-30
 
LOSING HEALTH COVERAGE
One million Americans have lost their health insurance in the last year, a trend the Clinton Administration says would be almost doubled by Republican budget-cutting proposals. 1
 
Having a job is no assurance of having health insurance. 20
 
DOLE REBUFFS GAY GROUP
Scrambling to enhance relations with conservatives, Senator Bob Dole's Presidential campaign said it would return $1,000 from a gay Republican group. 1
 
SOME DISCOURAGING WORDS
Nearly two centuries after their formation, the Texas Rangers are in turmoil over a phenomenon born of the late 20th century: what most folks refer to as "lady rangers." 1
 
QUESTIONS ABOUT INFORMER
The source of evidence indicating there was racism at a law-enforcement gathering is himself a "white power" advocate who had quarreled with the event's organizers over his expressing his views. 12
 
CRASH ON BLOCK ISLAND
A seaplane trying to land off Block Island, R.I., crashed into a restaurant and exploded, killing all four people aboard the aircraft and one person on the ground. 12
 
OUT OF SIGHT, BUT NOT MIND
Seventy-five years after women won their right to vote, a statue of three of the leading suffragists remains largely out of the public view in the Capitol basement. 14
 
U.S. TO TAKE OVER UNION
The Government will take control of a hotel and restaurant workers' union with 300,000 members to purge it of what it calls connections to organized crime. 15
 
Metro 31-36
 
HAMPTONS FIRE IS CONTROLLED
The Long Island fire that charred 12 square miles of pine barrens and imperiled a South Shore community in Suffolk County fell to an encircling army of firefighters and aerial attacks, ending three days of heroics and high drama with no loss of life, no major injuries and minimal property damage. 1
 
WOES OF A BRONX PROJECT
Plans for a $280 paper recycling plant that would provide 1,000 permanent jobs and other economic benefits for the South Bronx have stalled. The case illustrate how even the best-intentioned environmentally sensitive construction projects, backed by enthusiastic support from neighborhood residents to the Oval Office, can be stymied. 31
 
FAMED BROOKLYN HOTEL BURNS
More than 500 firefighters battled an early-morning blaze that gutted a portion of the landmark St. George Hotel in Brooklyn Heights and heavily damaged two buildings that were once part of it, including a 30-story co-op. 31
 
A NEW SUMMERTIME PEST
The Jet Ski and other personal watercraft are the high-speed craze of American waterways. To many seaside residents, they are noisy summer pests about as welcome as mosquitoes. And as sales increase, so do the number of accidents.31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CROATIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GAY REPUBLICAN (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROATIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ETHNICITY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); WOMEN (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); BUDGETS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); BASEBALL (66%); RESTAURANTS (64%); ORGANIZED CRIME (61%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



513 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Guatemalans Negotiating Future Role of Military

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: GUATEMALA

 BODY:
On the battlefield they continue to hold the upper hand against the leftist guerrillas they have been fighting for 34 years.
But at the negotiating table, where the struggle will ultimately be decided, Guatemala's military leaders are increasingly on the defensive as they come under pressure from the United States, the United Nations and domestic critics. 
 As the most powerful institution in Guatemala, the armed forces hold the key to a peaceful settlement of Central America's only remaining armed conflict. Negotiations have been under way for several years, and with agreements already reached on several secondary issues, the talks are expected to move soon to what everyone agrees is the crucial question: the future of the military itself.
"The issue of what role the military will play in a postwar civil society is the most difficult we have to address," said a European diplomat who has been closely monitoring the peace talks. "They have their fingers in almost every pie in Guatemala, and so they have the most to lose."
In recent months, the military's longstanding suspicion of the peace talks has been reawakened, Government officials and diplomats here say, by developments in the United States.
Chief among these is the disclosure that a Guatemalan Army colonel on the payroll of the Central Intelligence Agency was apparently responsible for the killings of an American innkeeper and a guerrilla commander who was the husband of an American lawyer.
In addition, a Federal court in Boston this spring found a former Defense Minister guilty of human rights violations against eight Guatemalans and an American nun who had sued him.
The former Defense Minister, Gen. Hector Gramajo, was ordered to pay $47.5 million in damages after Judge Douglas Woodlock ruled that he was responsible for "widespread acts of brutality committed under his command resulting in thousands of civilian deaths" during the 1980's.
A senior Guatemalan military officer, speaking on condition that neither his name nor his rank be divulged, commented: "At the institutional level, all this has had a tremendous impact. We are being crucified at home and abroad. We feel as if we are aboard a boat that is adrift, wondering who will survive and who will go down with the ship."
To the military high command, the timing of events in the United States is not a coincidence, but part of an international campaign intended to make them more malleable at the negotiating table. "They see this as a political maneuver against the army and the Government, and a sign that the Clinton Administration is tilting towards the guerrillas," a diplomat here said.
Through a strategy of unmitigated brutality, the Guatemalan Army has largely eliminated the leftist insurgents as a military force -- though not as a political one. But the human cost has been enormous: more than 100,000 people dead, most of them at the hands of the armed forces or paramilitary groups, and some 40,000 missing.
Having accumulated enormous power and privileges during that war, the military is clearly fearful of surrendering its dominant role.
Indeed, when an aide to President Ramiro de Leon Carpio recently suggested that the size and duties of the armed forces might have to be reduced, a military spokesman publicly rebuked him, saying he had spoken prematurely and exceeded his authority.
Nevertheless, a significant reduction in the size of the armed forces, which currently number more than 40,000, is likely to be one of the central issues when the peace negotiators turn to military questions, perhaps as early as this fall.
Diplomats here have estimated that the military, already buffeted by a Government edict that last year outlawed forced recruitment, could be shrunk to 20,000 or fewer men as part of a peace agreement.
"The army has always been the power behind the throne, but they can only come out of this wounded," said Nineth Montenegro de Garcia, director of the Mutual Support Group, a leading human rights organization here. "They don't want to do it, but they're going to have to make some sacrifices. The only question is how many."
In a speech on June 30, which is Army Day here, the Defense Minister, Gen. Mario Enriquez, said that "we in the Army are consciously preparing ourselves to fulfill seriously the role that the Constitution has assigned us." But he also criticized those forces that he said hoped to use the peace talks "as an instrument of revenge to achieve objectives not won in armed confrontation."
The roles that the military could play after peace is reached, General Enriquez said, include police work, protecting the environment and even assisting in economic development projects. He said the army would continue to seek those duties, "even though the possible participation of the armed forces in support of the civilian authorities has been politically questioned by some sectors."
What General Enriquez failed to mention, but what is on the minds of many here, are the perquisites of power that the military may be equally reluctant to relinquish. Over the years, the Guatemalan military has built an extensive private network not only of schools, stores, hospitals and housing for the exclusive use of soldiers and their families, but also its own sports teams and a television channel, all of which are deeply resented by civilians.
In addition, Government officials and foreign diplomats contend, the military controls criminal enterprises that have enriched senior members of the general staff and local commanders. These illicit businesses are reported to include drug trafficking, kidnapping, car theft, selling tropical timber and smuggling Mayan archeological artifacts.
The Guatemalan officer corps appears alarmed at what has happened next door in El Salvador. There, a peace agreement brokered by the United Nations has brought an end to a decade of civil war and has diminished the size and the political role of the military and led to the naming of many officers as human rights abusers.
The United Nations has been mediating the talks here and already has a mission in place. Once a final peace accord is signed, a "truth commission" is to examine the human rights record of the army, which human rights groups here and abroad uniformly describe as appalling, and of guerrilla groups -- a disagreeable prospect to a military institution that regards itself as under siege.
"We don't want the armed forces to be the only bad guys in this movie," a senior military official said. "There have been excesses on both sides, and so the final document must be a balanced one."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Guatemalan military, at war with leftist guerrillas for more than 30 years, sees itself coming under increasing pressure within the country as well as from the United States and the United Nations. In June, members of the elite army unit the Kaibiles prepared to take part in Army Day celebrations. (Nancy McGirr/Black Star)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA; GUATEMALA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GUATEMALA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ARMIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); DAMAGES (76%); LAWYERS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



514 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: RISE IN UNINSURED BECOMES AN ISSUE IN MEDICAID FIGHT

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 26

 BODY:
Since President Clinton's plans for universal health care coverage collapsed a year ago, another million Americans have lost their health insurance, a trend the Clinton Administration and some private analysts say would be almost doubled by Republican proposals to rein in Medicaid spending.
Estimates of the number of uninsured Americans now run as high as 43.4 million, more and more of whom are from the working poor. The rate at which the ranks of the uninsured have been growing has increased slightly but steadily in recent years, to a current annual rate of 1.2 million, by the latest estimates. 
 But Administration officials say Republican plans to cut projected Medicaid spending by $182 billion over the next seven years could deprive as many as nine million additional Americans of Medicaid coverage by 2002, leaving the bulk of those people with no health insurance at all.
While that projection could be labeled partisan because it is part of the Administration's preparation for the budget battle that will open when Congress returns after Labor Day, a number of outside groups and analysts agree that Medicaid's soaring growth in recent years has acted as a brake on the rising number of the uninsured. Cuts in the program, which provides health coverage for low-income Americans, could well lead to an increase in the number of people without health coverage, they say.
Congressional Republicans contend that by transferring Federal money directly to the states with reduced regulation, they can expand the number of people served while limiting the growth in spending. "We're going to change Medicaid," said Representative Dennis Hastert, the Illinois Republican who is the vice chairman of the Commerce subcommittee on health, which oversees Medicaid. "We think by changing it, knocking out some of the dual Federal-state bureaucracy, we can expand it."
Republicans also fiercely contest Democratic descriptions of their Medicaid plans as cuts. Under the budget resolution passed by the House and Senate this summer, Medicaid spending would increase to $124.3 billion in the 2002 fiscal year. That would be up from $89.2 billion in the current fiscal year, which ends on Sept. 30, but well below the $177.8 billion that the Congressional Budget Office projects would be needed in 2002 to maintain existing levels of service for everyone who meets the eligibility standards in current law.
This new debate is a stark contrast to the arguments heard here last August, when President Clinton was pushing universal health care coverage. Back then, Democrats wondered whether settling for covering 95 percent of Americans was too great a compromise, while many Republicans argued that the Clinton health care plan was moving in the right direction but too far, too fast.
A number of senior Republicans joined moderate Democrats last year in supporting limited changes in health care legislation. When President Clinton's plan failed last year, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas said that legislation addressing the cost and quality of health care would be "at the top of the Senate's agenda" this year. But as majority leader this year, Senator Dole has instead emphasized cutting the Federal budget deficit and other issues.
Hearing little public clamor for change, Republicans put health care low on their agenda, except for proposing reductions in Medicare and Medicaid in their drive to balance the Federal budget by 2002. Democrats have reacted with dire predictions of the effects of Republican cuts in Government insurance programs.
The only significant exception is a bipartisan Senate Labor Committee bill that would help some people who lose their insurance when they change jobs. But its immediate prospects appear dim, particularly in the House, where it ranks far down the Republican list of priorities.
Democratic warnings on Medicaid cuts are echoed by many private health care experts, who are skeptical that the Republican initiatives would reduce the number of uninsured and who argue that the number may begin rising even faster.
"You're talking about a situation that is likely to deteriorate even if the Medicaid program is not cut," said Robert D. Reischauer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and former director of the Congressional Budget Office. "With cuts, the ranks of the uninsured will swell much faster."
The most widely used estimates of the number of uninsured Americans come from the Employee Benefit Research Institute in Washington, a nonprofit, nonpartisan group supported by a range of large corporations, law firms, trade associations and labor unions. Paul Fronstin, a researcher at the institute, said calculations from Census data show that 40.9 million Americans under the age of 65 lacked health insurance in 1993, along with several hundred thousand older Americans who did not qualify for Medicare for various reasons.
The number of uninsured Americans has been steadily rising as employers have stopped offering coverage or have begun charging fees that some people felt they could not afford. These trends appear to have continued over the last two years, so that the number of uninsured probably rose to slightly more than 42 million last year and to as much as 43.4 million this year, or 18.7 percent of those under 65, Mr. Fronstin said.
Medicaid covered nearly 32 million people in 1993, up from 21 million in 1989, according to the institute. Another 33 million Americans had Medicare coverage in 1993, compared with 31.5 million in 1989.
Social researchers have long approached figures on the uninsured with caution because they are based on large annual surveys by the Census Bureau. Some analysts have argued that many respondents misunderstand the questions and indicate that they have been without health insurance for the entire preceding year when they have actually lacked coverage only part of the time.
Studies by the Employee Benefit Research Institute and a new study this summer by the Urban Institute, a liberal Washington research group, have concluded that the rise in the number of people without health insurance has come mainly among the working poor.
A series of legislative changes in recent years have meant that Medicaid covers a steadily rising percentage of poor Americans. At the same time, the number of poor Americans is increasing as the gap between rich and poor widens. But Medicaid is not available to many families whose earnings are slightly greater than the official definition of poverty -- $14,764 for a family of four in 1993.
Clinton Administration officials relied heavily on the Urban Institute's analytical techniques in forecasting that nine million Americans would be denied Medicaid in 2002 if the current Republican budget were approved. They assumed that the Republican plans would cut the annual rate of increase in Medicaid's cost per beneficiary to 1.9 percent above the rate of inflation in consumer prices, from the current 3.8 percent.
The Administration officials used the Congressional Budget Office's assumption that the number of people eligible for Medicaid would continue to rise briskly as the ranks of the poor continued to expand. They then calculated that most of those extra people would be denied Medicaid coverage under the Republican budget plans. Private studies suggest that considerably less than half of those denied Medicaid coverage would be able to find health insurance elsewhere, such as by joining a relative's insurance plan.
The Republicans assume that the cost per beneficiary will grow more slowly or that the demand for Medicaid services will rise more slowly, or both.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Growing Number Of Uninsured" shows number of uninsured age 64 or younger from '88-'95. (Source: Employee Benefit Research Institute, from Census data)
 
Chart: "SORTING IT OUT: Working Poor Lose Health Insurance"
 The proporation of Americans below the poverty line who lack health insurance fell from 1988 to 1993 as the Federal Government's Medicaid program expanded. But more Americans above the poverty line lost health insurance as fewer employers provided this benefit.
 
Percentage who have no health insurance
 
For incomes below the poverty line*
 
1988: 30.0%
1993: 26.0%
 
For incomes at to double the poverty line*
 
1988: 28.0%
1993: 29.6%
 
For incomes two to four times the poverty line*
 
1988: 12.2%
1993: 15.1%
 
For incomes more than four times the poverty line*
 
1988: 5.5%
1993: 7.6%
 
*The poverty line for a family of four was $12.092 in 1988 and $14,764 in 1993. Excludes Americans over the age of 64, almost all of whom are covered by Medicare, as well as prison inmatges, mental institution patients and members of the armed forces.
 
(Source: Urban Institute, from Census data) (pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ILLINOIS REPUBLICAN (81%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); KANSAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICAID; HEALTH INSURANCE MEDICAID (93%); HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); US LABOR DAY (73%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



515 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: COMPANIES PRESS CLINTON TO LIFT EMBARGO ON CUBA

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON 

 BODY:
A growing number of American businesses have for the first time begun pressing Washington to reconsider the trade embargo against Cuba, complaining that it forces them to stand by as foreign competitors lock up an attractive emerging market.
A handful of corporate executives have spoken out publicly against the embargo in recent months, and others have testified before Congress. But most of the pressure has come in private meetings with Clinton Administration officials. 
 The emergence of a fledgling private-sector lobby against the Cuban embargo adds an influential new element to a debate in which economic interests have taken a back seat to political ideology.
"Pressure is growing," a Clinton Administration official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. "Businessmen are expressing interest in a transition in Cuba and complaining that all the deals down there are being cut by foreign competitors. There's a very high degree of business interest in Cuba."
So far, Clinton Administration officials have responded only by restating long-held positions, as when Alexander Watson, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, recently came under questioning on Cuba after giving a pep talk on hemispheric trade to an audience of corporate executives at the State Department.
"The Europeans and the Asians are knocking on the door in Latin America," Mr. Watson warned. "The game is on and we can compete effectively, but it will be a big mistake if we leave the game to others."
Eric Williams, managing director for Latin American sales for Federal Express, asked, "Do your comments on free trade apply to Cuba?"
"No, no," Mr. Watson said. "That simply can't be, not for now."
John D. Tessier, a Connecticut consultant who specializes in Latin America, waded in. "Isn't there some incongruity on our policy toward the Communist world?" he asked. "Why do we have one policy toward North Korea, another for Vietnam, another for China, but complete coldness toward Cuba?"
"Cuba is a special case," Mr. Watson responded. "This Administration will maintain the embargo until major democratic changes take place in Cuba. Then, and only then, will the United States respond with carefully calibrated steps. And that's where we are."
Perhaps the most outspoken critic of the embargo among corporate executives has been Dwayne O. Andreas, chairman of Archer Daniels Midland, the giant grain processor in Decatur, Ill.
"Our embargo has been a total failure for 30 years," Mr. Andreas said in a June interview with CNN. "We ought to have all the Americans in Cuba doing all the business they can. It's time for a change."
Jose Cardenas, a spokesman for the Cuban-American National Foundation, the powerful anti-Castro lobby, acknowledged that business interest in Cuba had increased. "There are always a few people who are willing to make a buck -- and the moral ramifications be damned," he said. "But most people know that stable business conditions will not exist in Cuba as long as Fidel Castro is in power. And when it comes down to it, these businessmen won't bleed for the issue."
Even as executives like Mr. Andreas are urging an end to the embargo, a Republican bill in Congress would tighten it considerably. The bill, sponsored by Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina and Representative Dan Burton of Indiana, would, among other measures, punish foreign countries and companies, including subsidiaries of American companies, that trade with Cuba.
The Clinton Administration has threatened to veto the bill, partly because of a provision that would allow thousands of Cuban exiles to sue the Cuban Government in Federal courts in the United States to recover properties that have been expropriated since the 1959 revolution. Administration officials said such lawsuits could overwhelm the courts with dubious new litigation.
Administration officials say the threat of a tighter embargo has actually focused the attention of the business executives on the issue, and drawn more open expressions of disfavor.
John S. Kavulich, president of the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council, which works with the cooperation of the Castro Government to disseminate commercial information about Cuba, said 1995 had brought an increase in the number of executives scouting out Cuba, even above 1994, when he said more than 500 representatives of American businesses visited there.
More than 100 of the American business representatives who have visited Cuba have signed "letters of intent" with state-owned businesses, outlining areas of potential cooperation if trade relations are normalized, Bruno Rodriguez Parrilla, Cuba's delegate to the United Nations, said in an interview.
The Clinton Administration's decision on May 2 to repatriate Cuban boat people, reversing three decades of immigration policy and angering the most conservative Cuban exile organizations, has led some executives to conclude that the Administration is rethinking its Cuba policy.
Many executives say they sense that change may be coming -- despite repeated Administration declarations to the contrary. Ron Perelman, who owns Revlon as well as the Consolidated Cigar Corporation, predicted in a recent interview with the magazine Cigar Aficionado that the embargo would be lifted within five years.
"We think it's inevitable," said Thomas J. Polski, a spokesman for Carlson Companies, which owns the Radisson Hotel chain and a Caribbean cruise liner. "We see Cuba as an exciting new opportunity -- the forbidden fruit of the Caribbean."
Others question how rapidly change will come. John E. Howard, international policy director at the United States Chamber of Commerce, which opposes the embargo, said American corporations were not yet as active on Cuba as they were in the lobbying campaign that led to the normalization of relations with Vietnam in February.
"The time was right, politically, to make that happen on Vietnam," Mr. Howard said. "I question whether the time is right to make it happen on Cuba."
But executives cut off from a market they consider potentially lucrative are speaking out anyway.
Carlson is one of several companies whose executives have criticized the embargo in Congressional testimony since early last year. Another is Otis Elevator, based in Farmington, Conn., whose executives want the chance to modernize the thousands of Otis elevators in Cuba and have both testified and sent letters to Congress protesting the embargo.
At a hearing on American-Cuban relations before the House Ways and Means Committee on June 30, the vice chairman of the U.S.A. Rice Federation, Keith Broussard, said, "The U.S. rice industry views the Cuban market as one of great potential once the embargo is no longer in place."
Sandra M. Alfonso, who heads a commission set up by Gov. Edwin Edwards of Louisiana, told Congress at the same hearing that pre-embargo Cuba had been Louisiana's No. 1 trading partner and that the state had lost 6,000 jobs because of the embargo. Louisiana could easily recover those jobs and more, Ms. Alfonso said, but not "if the existing sanctions remain."
Although some executives are speaking publicly, Administration officials said more were expressing their views on the embargo in private meetings at the White House and the State Department.
"I'm hearing concerns from many U.S. businessmen that they are losing out," said Richard Nuccio, the White House's special adviser on Cuba. "But frankly I don't think it's very true" that American businesses are missing major opportunities, he said. The Europeans, Latin Americans and other foreign competitors investing in Cuba "are mostly people who put money in short-term or high-risk investments" and could be displaced by American investors if the embargo is lifted, he said.
One exception, Mr. Nuccio said, is in the modernization of Cuba's telephone system, an undertaking that has begun with major investments from Italian and Mexican companies.
"Once others wire the country, Americans are not going to re-wire it," Mr. Nuccio said. "The embargo against Cuba is the most comprehensive against any country in the world -- it's a tough embargo. We do it because we believe that it is only pressure that drives Cuba toward economic or political reform."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "LEDGER: Foreign Investment In Cuba" shows amount in millions of foreign investments in Cuba. (Source: U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council, Inc.) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (80%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (80%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (80%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (80%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (80%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (80%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (80%); 

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (80%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); POLITICS (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: DILLON, SAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



516 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: Mill Sought by Bronx Is Blocked;
Railroad Bluff Delays A Project in Train Yard

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

 BODY:
For the South Bronx, the proposal to build a paper recycling mill in the old Harlem Rail Yard appeared to be a rare sure thing.
Announced in May 1994, the plan called for a $280 million plant that would recycle a daily torrent of office paper from New York City's trash. At the same time, it would provide 1,000 permanent jobs and other economic benefits for the South Bronx, including housing, day care and health care services for the workers. 
 Residents, environmentalists, government leaders, even the White House embraced the idea. "Great," President Clinton wrote in a White House memo describing the mill. "V.P. or I should visit site when it opens."
But now, 15 months later, it is uncertain whether the mill will ever open. The plant's groundbreaking, originally scheduled for April on a 19-acre tract just north of Randalls Island, has been postponed indefinitely. And the project's partners -- a nationally renowned environmental group and a South Bronx community organization -- are struggling to overcome a series of setbacks.
A suit filed by a Manhattan lawyer, a railroad buff who objected to putting the mill in a railroad yard, stalled any progress on the project for a year. By the time the partners won the suit in the appeals courts earlier this month, the mill's two principal investors, a pair of international paper companies, had withdrawn their pledge to invest in the project.
"The lawsuit hurt us very much; there's no doubt about it," said Allen Hershkowitz, a senior scientist at the National Resources Defense Council, the environmental group pushing the project. "Even though the lawsuit was groundless, all the confidence that someone would have in this project was wiped out. And now we have to get it back."
In the last few days, Dr. Hershkowitz said, two other paper companies have expressed interest in investing in the project now that it is "litigation free." But there is much to be done before the project can once again be considered a sure thing.
The difficulties facing the Bronx Community Paper Company illustrate how even the best-intentioned environmentally sensitive construction projects, backed by enthusiastic support from neighborhood residents to the Oval Office, can be stymied. The project's problems have also reinforced the long-held perception among investors and developers that it is extremely difficult to develop manufacturing projects in New York City, with its myriad bureaucratic, political and legal hurdles.
For 30 years, community leaders and residents in the South Bronx felt powerless to stop the exodus of manufacturers from their neighborhood for the suburbs. Most often, community advocates fought to stop the construction of what they perceived were environmentally harmful projects, like the medical waste incinerator in nearby Hunts Point.
Several years ago, community development groups began trying to attract new, nonpolluting industries to the South Bronx, particularly to the abandoned Harlem Rail Yard, which has been an eyesore for 25 years.
Yolanda Rivera, chairwoman of Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association, a leading community organization in the South Bronx, sought the advice of local and national environmental experts. She met Dr. Hershkowitz, who was familiar with a pollution-free process that the paper industry is beginning to try commercially: it turns office paper into clean pulp that printing companies use to make high-grade writing and printing papers, like glossy magazine covers.
Quietly, for two years, Dr. Hershkowitz and Ms. Rivera discussed something never done before: building a paper recycling plant in an inner-city area, a plant that would benefit from being close to the recyclable material.
Two paper companies, S. D. Warren Company of Boston and Modo Paper Company of Stockholm, were attracted. The companies agreed to invest a total of $550,000 to defray the $2 million needed for detailed engineering and economic studies.
When it was announced in May 1994, Ms. Rivera and Dr. Hershkowitz portrayed the paper mill as a pioneering project built upon the unlikely cooperation of an environmental group, a community development association and two paper companies.
Beyond that, the project planners had an abiding social conscience. Of the $280 million cost, $6.2 million would be spent on social service projects in the South Bronx, including a dormitory for the homeless and a family learning center offering programs in child care, health care, literacy training, employment and housing.
The project's leaders said they were committed to knocking down the skepticism of many investors about manufacturing in New York City. "Most executives would never think about building in New York," said Bruce Pulver, a financial adviser to the project. "I have frequently been involved in projects that have been stopped by environmental groups or community opposition."
This project, the partners said, would be different because the partners themselves were the usual sources of grass-roots opposition that can severely delay development proposals.
But John McHugh, a Manhattan lawyer and passionate railroad advocate, was committed to stopping the project. Since 1982, he has argued that the former Harlem Rail Yard should be used solely as a railroad transportation hub, which he says is badly needed by what is left of New York City's industrial base.
"They want to put a paper recycling mill in the middle of what was supposed to be a rail yard, and that would destroy the rail yard forever," Mr. McHugh said.
He also said he was angry that the mill partners had been able to lease their site from Francesco Galesi, a developer who in turn had a 99-year lease from the state for the rail yard that Mr. McHugh complained was "far below market rent."
Two years ago, Mr. McHugh told an environmental group at a Riverdale synagogue about the damage the mill would do to the rail yard. "After the meeting, several people approached me," recalled Mr. McHugh, who informed the audience that he lives in Ho-Ho-Kus, N.J., not the South Bronx. "They wanted to find out how they could stop it."
In the audience was Gwynn Smalls, a co-founder of the South Bronx Clean Air Coalition, who said she believed the project's partners had not given residents enough information to squelch their concerns about the mill.
"People just didn't know enough," said Ms. Smalls, who is asthmatic and remains concerned that the paper mill could harm the environment. "Whenever we asked for specific documentation, we were told they would get back to us, and then they didn't get back to us. There was a lot of mistrust, and relying on good faith is not enough for us."
Dr. Hershkowitz and Ms. Rivera met with Mr. McHugh, who told them they should find another site for the plant. They argued that there were no other economical sites in the South Bronx.
For Ms. Rivera, the darkest hour came during a meeting with the plant's opponents, including Mr. McHugh. "It became clear that this had nothing to do with environmental issues or what was best for the community," Ms. Rivera said. "I told them I found it incredibly maddening to think that they would stand in the way of the welfare of everyday folks. I told them, 'I hope the community never discovers what you've done here.' "
Richard Schrader, an adviser to the project, said Mr. McHugh's arguments about the mill were an easy sell in the South Bronx. "I think the South Bronx is emblematic of all the broken promises that the government has made and never come through on," Mr. Schrader said. "They don't trust outsiders who promise gold and deliver snake oil.
"Most importantly, though, those most vocal opponents of the project are really people who are isolated from mainstream politics. That kind of isolation, particularly in a poor community, breeds contempt toward any outsider."
The South Bronx Clean Air Coalition agreed to sue to stop the mill; Mr. McHugh represented them free. In March, a trial judge agreed with his clients that the original plan had discouraged bidders from considering exclusive development of the site as a railroad yard.
The group's partners were stunned.
There were other problems. A few months earlier, S. D. Warren, a division of Scott Paper, had been bought by Sappi, a South African paper company. The high debt of the purchase made it impossible for Sappi to remain in the Bronx project, which some board members saw as a "risky venture," said James D. Black, vice president of S. D. Warren.
Mr. Black gave the bad news to the partners on the same day they heard they had lost the lawsuit. "They were all sitting around, very long-faced," he said. "They knew why I was there. I told them we couldn't keep our end of the project. It was a very bleak moment."
Mr. Black said he had advised the partners that getting another paper company was essential to the project. "They tried," he said, "but they were absolutely handicapped in getting another paper company after having lost the lawsuit." Modo has also withdrawn its commitment to invest, but the mill's partners say it is still interested in buying some of the pulp and may lend technological expertise.
Still, the loss of both companies' support left the project moribund. Then, on Aug. 10, the state appellate court ruled unanimously in favor of the project, even saying that Mr. McHugh's clients "were less motivated by environmental concerns than by economic, political or other factors."
The mill's partners, though vindicated by the ruling, acknowledge that the hard part lies ahead, as they try to recruit new investors. Last week, Mr. McHugh rejected their accusation that his lawsuit had hurt that effort.
"We didn't do this to them," he said. "They did it to themselves. They could have put this mill in any number of places -- the Hunts Point peninsula, for one. But they chose a rail yard for a paper mill, which makes no sense. As a result, they probably killed themselves off, and that's not very smart."
The partners remain optimistic, saying that the project's main selling point -- a recycling mill adjacent to thousands of tons of recyclable office paper -- has not changed.
Dr. Hershkowitz said: "What has clearly happened is people are now saying the project that was impossible to carry out, because of community opposition, has now gotten beyond that opposition."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yolanda Rivera in a warehouse in the former Harlem Rail Yard, where her social service group backed a jobs plan. (Susan Harris for The New York Times) (pg. 31); President Clinton jotted enthusiastic words about a proposed paper recycling plant in the Bronx on a White House memorandum last year. But opponents of the plan, including John McHugh, right, a railroad advocate, and Carlos Padilla, a founder of the South Bronx Clean Air Coalition, have succeeded in derailing it, at least for now. (Stephanie Berger for The New York Times) (pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH BRONX CLEAN AIR COALITION BRONX COMMUNITY PAPER CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTH BRONX CLEAN AIR COALITION

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PAPER AND PULP; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; RAILROADS DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); PAPER MFG (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PAPER & PACKAGING (89%); LITIGATION (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); MEDICAL WASTE & BIOHAZARDS (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); SUBURBS (70%); LAWYERS (69%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (60%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%); 

PERSON: VAN NATTA, DON JR; MCHUGH, JOHN; PADILLA, CARLOS; RIVERA, YOLANDA JOHN M MCHUGH (74%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



517 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: A Cleanup Program Helps the Unemployed

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON 

 BODY:
The City of Bridgeport, Conn., is hiring residents who are unemployed or on welfare to clean up trash in some poor neighborhoods.
The program is focused on areas that are blighted by illegal dumping and abandoned buildings. Residents who own pickup trucks are paid $30 a ton to haul the trash to a regional incinerator. City officials estimate that about 9,000 tons of trash have accumulated on private property in the area covered by the project. 
 The program, called Trash for Cash, works like this: The city first tells the owner to clean up the property. If the property owner fails to act, a task force assigns the job to a program participant and charges the property owner for the cleanup.
The Resco incinerator, which takes municipal trash from the Bridgeport area, has reduced its fee for taking trash to $30 a ton, from the usual $79, to help subsidize the pilot program. GEORGE JUDSON

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a new Bridgeport cleanup program, the unemployed, like Joseph Kaminski, right, and Dennis Teel, get paid for tidying up poor neighborhoods.; Mr. Kaminski, left, and Mr. Teel get $30 for every ton of trash they haul by truck to transfer stations. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; WELFARE (US) UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (88%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



518 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Judge Who Is Also a General Repairs Haiti's Judicial System

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 26

 BODY:
Donald F. Campbell has two jobs. When he is not presiding over divorcing couples and deadbeat dads, he is fixing broken countries.
Since American troops entered Haiti last September to reinstate the exiled President, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, among the biggest challenges has been resurrecting Haiti's tattered judicial system, which suffered from decades of neglect under a host of dictators and military juntas. 
 Much of that burden has fallen to General Campbell, a New Jersey Superior Court judge in civilian life who is also a two-star general in the Army Reserve responsible for helping countries rebuild after wars or natural disasters.
General Campbell, a family-law judge in Burlington County, led a team of 18 Army Reserve judges and lawyers to Haiti in February for a three-month assignment to review the judicial system, begin training the country's 400 judges (many of whom have little or no legal background), modernize the country's 19th century legal code and begin repairing dilapidated rural courthouses.
Since then, from his Army command at Fort Bragg, N.C., and from his courthouse in Mount Holly, N.J., General Campbell has worked closely with the United States Agency for International Development, the United Nations and Haiti's Justice Minister, Jean-Joseph Exume, to maintain the momentum his legal shock troops started.
"Their needs are so basic you did not need a Harvard law degree to understand what had to be done to improve their system," General Campbell said in an interview at the Pentagon. The general, a decorated Vietnam veteran, commands 5,800 Army civil affairs troops who are judges, doctors, health inspectors and fire chiefs as civilians, and who use those same skills when called to active duty.
So far, there have been small successes. The Justice Ministry in Port-au-Prince has light bulbs again. Each of the country's judges has a set of books containing Haiti's legal code. And on Thursday, a newly functioning criminal court convicted a Haitian man of killing a prominent supporter of Mr. Aristide in 1993, one of the most notorious murders during the country's last three years of military rule.
But there are still plenty of hurdles. Haiti has no bail system. Its criminal court is in session only twice a year, leaving many suspects to spend more time in jail awaiting trial than the length their sentences would be if they were tried and found guilty. The country's largely rural population still relies more on vigilante justice than the courtroom variety.
"It's going to be a long, arduous process that will require time, effort and patience," said General Campbell, 52, who earned sociology and law degrees from Seton Hall University.
General Campbell's unusual background gives him a good chance to succeed. He has been a Superior Court judge in Ocean and Burlington counties since 1982, hearing more than 200 jury trials ranging from death-penalty murder cases to medical malpractice and child-custody complaints.
"The fact I was a judge gave me credibility with the Haitians," said General Campbell. "It was absolutely key. We couldn't accomplish anything without their full cooperation."
The Haitian Government required General Campbell and his team to trade in their battle fatigues for dark suits during their assignment. "We had to be in civilian clothing so we gave the impression it was not the U.S. military but the U.S. legal community that was offering assistance," he said.
In a country in which the Justice Ministry last spring had little idea how many judges and courthouses it really had, General Campbell sought to bring military efficiency to disarray and uncertainty.
The team helicoptered around the country with Mr. Exume, visiting virtually all of the 400 judges and justices-of-the-peace. About one-third had held their jobs for years, sometimes decades. Most others were appointed by Mr. Aristide.
"In rural areas, a few of them couldn't even read or write," General Campbell said. "They were respected elders who people thought would make good judges."
The American team interviewed each of the judges, noted their concerns for improved security, and reviewed with them the Haitian constitution, ethics and the responsibilities of judges.
At General Campbell's recommendation, Mr. Exume agreed to increase a judge's salary to about $320 a month from $80 a month. Legal forms, absent in some courthouses for 10 years, were flown in. Fifteen of the American military's Chevrolet Blazers were donated to help Haitian judges travel around the countryside.
"They were a roving, experienced and disciplined force that could focus on problems and get things done," Michael Morfit, head of the Agency for International Development's Haiti task force in Washington, said of General Campbell's team. "They were prepared for just about anything."
The team recommended changes to Haiti's Napoleonic legal code. Under the code, for instance, judges, not police officers, investigate crimes. That could lead to conflicts of interest, the general said. Lawyers from France and Louisiana, the only state with a legal system based on Napoleonic law, were brought in to help.
In the last few months, the Agency for International Development and the Haitian Government have opened a formal training center for judges in the Haitian army's former military academy. French-speaking judges from countries like Canada and Senegal have joined Haitian lawyers as instructors for rigorous two-week courses.
The United States plans to spend $18 million over the next five years to restore the Haitian judiciary, its courthouses and some of the nation's 17 prisons. In October, General Campbell said he expects an eight-member legal team will return to some of the areas visited last spring.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judge Donald F. Campbell of Burlington County, N.J., is helping to rebuild Haiti's judicial system. (Laura Pedrick for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ARMIES (91%); JUDGES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); FAMILY LAW (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); VERDICTS (76%); SENTENCING (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (74%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (73%); LAWYERS (72%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); MURDER (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

PERSON: JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



519 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: The PATH War;
Giuliani's Call for a Fare Increase Provokes Anger and Veiled Threats

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
When Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani called for a fare increase on the PATH commuter line last week, opening a new front in the border wars with New Jersey, it almost seemed as if he were complaining about a railway whose route was entirely west of the Hudson and never entered New York City.
The PATH does come into the city, of course, making nearly as many stops in Manhattan as in New Jersey. So if the system provides service in both states, why does Mr. Giuliani keep attacking it and its owner, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, declaring that the city is being shortchanged? In other words, who actually benefits from the PATH? 
 Port Authority officials and transportation experts disagree with Mr. Giuliani's assertion that the Port Authority Trans-Hudson is essentially a New Jersey institution. Although they acknowledge that 85 percent of PATH riders are New Jersey residents, they ask whether Mr. Giuliani would prefer that the 65,000 or so commuters who take PATH daily to Manhattan drive instead.
"If you didn't have PATH, think about the kind of traffic and congestion that would create," said John J. Haley Jr., the deputy executive director of the Port Authority.
New Jersey officials questioned how Mr. Giuliani could say he was determined to revitalize the office market in Lower Manhattan when he wanted to raise the fare on the PATH, which brings tens of thousands of commuters to its World Trade Center station every weekday.
And transportation experts noted that New Jersey commuters are taxed by New York City and State and spend millions of dollars a year on everything from clothes to restaurant meals to Broadway shows. In 1993, the most recent year for which figures are available, New Jersey residents paid $910 million in taxes to New York State and $63 million to New York City, officials said.
There are no statistics on what percentage of those amounts is paid by PATH commuters, but the figures are substantial. One out of every three New Jersey residents who come into jobs in the central business district in Manhattan, from Battery Park to 59th Street, uses PATH.
"We all benefit, both sides of the river, from a good transportation system, and the PATH is an essential part of the region's transportation system," said H. Claude Shostal, president of the Regional Plan Association, which studies land-use issues. "We are one region, one economy. If PATH would disappear, both sides of the river would be deeply hurt."
The issue has long roiled relations between the two states, and is again flaring now that tough times are forcing officials like Mr. Giuliani to focus on patching their budgets.
Mr. Giuliani contends that because so many of PATH's users are New Jersey residents, the $200 million annual subsidy that the railway receives from the Port Authority is a gift to New Jersey, draining money from the authority's finances that could go to projects in New York City.
The size of the subsidy, Mr. Giuliani says, also prevents the authority from paying the city more rent for Kennedy International and La Guardia Airports, which the authority leases from the city. By raising the fare from $1 to at least $1.25, he says, the authority could lower the subsidy on the PATH, which runs through Newark, Harrison, Jersey City, Hoboken and Manhattan.
"If I see New Yorkers getting hosed, I am going to fight for them," Mr. Giuliani said, touching off a backlash from Gov. Christine Todd Whitman and other New Jersey officials, who announced that they were against raising the fare and the $4 toll on the Port Authority's bridges and tunnels. Some New Jersey legislators even threatened to retaliate by increasing commuter taxes for New Yorkers who work in New Jersey.
Mr. Giuliani also drew comparisons between the PATH and the New York City subway system, which is operated by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, a state agency, and receives a smaller subsidy than the PATH in terms of its costs. He said that city residents should not have to pay $1.25, soon to go up to $1.50, while the PATH remains $1.
Even if the fare were raised by 25 cents, it would yield only another $15 million, hardly significant in relation to the Port Authority's or the city's budget. If the tolls on the agency's six bridges and tunnels were also raised, from $4 to $5, that would bring in $140 million.
Mr. Giuliani doubtlessly knew that by demanding a fare increase, he would stir anger in New Jersey. Yet because so few New Yorkers ride the PATH, he faces little prospect of protests from his constituents, and might instead be able to rally some of them with his complaints that the Port Authority favors New Jersey.
Port Authority officials agree that the PATH deficit is too high, but they say they are working on a plan to reduce it by cutting at least $10 million from the railway's $155 million budget without decreasing service. Eventually, they say, fares should cover about 50 percent of the costs of the system, up from the current 25 to 38 percent, depending on the method of calculation.
No mass-transit system in the country earns a profit, and most transportation experts say that a system is successful if it reaches the 50 percent point.
"I am not saying that we don't have to fix things in PATH, but it is not broken," said Peter S. Kalikow, an authority commissioner from New York. "The last thing that we should do is raise fares and tolls."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY TRANS-HUDSON CORP (PATH) PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%); PORT AUTHORITY (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY TRANS-HUDSON CORP (PATH) PORT AUTHORITY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%); BUDGETS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); LAND USE PLANNING (61%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); JOHN J HALEY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



520 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 8; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
If You Want to Go Far, Go With the Long Ball

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The season was different from the first pitch. The strike forced a reduction in the schedule from 162 games to 144. Then, because the strike forced cancellation of the playoffs last year, this year's playoffs were granted uniqueness, featuring wild-card, or nonchampionship, teams for the first time.
The idea, then, would fit in with the unusual nature of the season. Instead of having three rounds of playoffs in competing cities all over the country, let the division champions and wild cards send their four top home run hitters and their four best pitchers to Colorado and settle this year's championship in one mammoth home run contest at Coors Field, Home of the Home Run. 
 Of course, the Rockies' rocket launchers would be favored, but the Rockies would have to qualify first by winning the National League West championship or finish with the best won-lost record among second-place teams. And if they did make it, their pitchers would have to pitch against the other teams' hitters.
Oh what a dandy show it would be. Balls soaring into the atmosphere, projectiles flying first over this fence, then over that one, incoming missiles threatening the safety of citizens within the park or anywhere near it.
As fanciful as this scenario is, it is one way of recognizing the squads of home run hitters that have powered teams into championship or contending status. Consider these statistics, with home run totals through Friday's games:
Rockies: Dante Bichette 31, Vinny Castilla 30, Larry Walker 28, Andres Galarraga 27.
Indians: Albert Belle 31, Manny Ramirez 29, Jim Thome 21, Paul Sorrento 20, Eddie Murray 15.
Angels: Jim Edmonds 30, Tim Salmon 29, Tony Phillips 20, J. T. Snow 18, Chili Davis 17.
Red Sox: Mo Vaughn 32, John Valentin 22, Jose Canseco 20.
Mariners: Tino Martinez 26, Jay Buhner 24, Edgar Martinez 24, Mike Blowers 18.
Dodgers: Eric Karros 24, Mike Piazza 22, Raul Mondesi 20.
The Rockies have the most awesome squad. Entering yesterday's games, their quartet was first, second, third and tied for fifth among National League leaders. They were a total of five home runs (Walker 2, Galarraga 3) away from becoming the first team since the 1977 Los Angeles Dodgers to have four players with 30 or more.
Don Baylor, the Rockies' manager, seems most impressed with Castilla, the third baseman, who never had hit more than 14 home runs in a season in his five-year professional career.
"It's pretty impressive to see Castilla, a third baseman, especially a right-handed hitter, with that kind of power," Baylor said of the player acquired in the expansion draft from Atlanta. "When we got him, Bobby Cox said he'll hit for you. I didn't think he meant home runs."
Of his four power hitters, Baylor added, Castilla "probably has more of an uppercut swing."
"He's the guy who probably can get the ball in the air more consistently than the other guys. Bichette can go out in either field, Galarraga and Walker the same. Vinny is better when he's hitting the ball to right-center because of his home run swing. He wants to pull, but when he thinks about hitting the ball the other way, he's hit the ball over the right-center field fence."
If Baylor has one complaint about his home run squad, it's that they change their hitting styles when the Rockies play on other fields. To be sure, the Rockies have distinctly split hitting personalities depending on the site of their games.
As a team, the Rockies are hitting .315 at home, .247 on the road. They have hit 112 home runs and scored 387 runs in 57 games at home but have hit only 50 home runs and scored 218 runs in 54 games on the road. The popular belief is that the Rockies benefit from Coors Field and the mile-high altitude. But Baylor blames the drastic difference on the players' approach to hitting.
"On the road, they don't try to hit the ball the other way," he said. "When we get back to Coors Field, they say now I'm going to hit the ball where it's pitched and go the other way. On the road, we get home-run-pull happy. Instead of taking a soft single to right, they try to pull. That's something that on the next road trip I'm going to try to convince the guys to do. It's not just home cooking. It's their mental philosophy and approach."
Baylor pointed to a telling statistic. "Our strikeouts go up on the road," he said. "You'd think you'd be swinging for the fences at Coors Field and strikeouts would be higher. But they're higher on the road."
The Rockies have struck out 401 times on the road, 344 times at home.
Home does have its advantages. "There's really no safe lead in this park when you have these four guys in a row," their manager said.
 
 
Dangerous When Healthy
 Juan Gonzalez of Texas and Jose Canseco of Boston have missed much playing time with injuries, but when they play, they are dangerous. Gonzalez has averaged one home run for every 11.7 at-bats, Canseco one every 14.1. Mark McGwire of Oakland is another slugger who has been undermined by injuries. He's on the disabled list now with a home run ratio of one every 8.8 at-bats.
Henry Aaron hit one home run every 16.4 at-bats, Babe Ruth one every 11.8.
 
 
More Than Memory Slipping
 At 2:18 A.M. Eastern time last Thursday, the Yankees tumbled 14 1/2 games behind the Boston Red Sox -- 17 years after they were popularly but mistakenly believed to have been 14 1/2 games behind the Red Sox.
In the memorable 1978 race, the Yankees fell 14 games back July 17 and remained there the next two days. Contrary to faulty memories, they never dropped 14 1/2 out.
They reached that precise deficit last Wednesday night when the Red Sox edged California, 6-5, in 10 innings after the Yankees had lost in Oakland earlier in the day. When they made it 15 1/2 the next night, the Yankees had plummeted 11 games in the standings in 19 days.
"That's almost unheard of," said the general manager of another team. "It must be something in the clubhouse, the chemistry or something,"
Maybe something in the water.
 
 
Picking on the Astros
 The Houston Astros should take it personally.
In 10 Cincinnati victories (in 10 games) against them this season, Ron Gant has collected 14 hits in 36 at-bats plus seven walks for a .389 batting average and .488 on-base percentage. He has slugged seven home runs and driven in 15 runs.
Using the same number of games the Reds played the Astros in each of their three series, in the 10 games before they played, Gant batted .237 with no home runs and 7 runs batted in (5 in one game); in the 10 games he played after the Reds-Astros series, Gant batted .243 with 2 homers and 5 r.b.i. Gant hit more home runs and drove in more runs in the 10 games against the Astros than in the 20 games before and after.
 
 
Talks Turn Positive
 If clubhouse chemistry can help produce winning teams, maybe good chemistry can have a positive effect on the attempt to get a new labor agreement. The low-profile talks between lawyers for the owners and the players will continue this week amid scouting reports from both sides that the chemistry has been good.
"I don't know what that means, where it will take us," said a member of management who has been involved in the negotiations the past year but not in these talks. "But it's better than it ever has been."
The talks have been described as "frank and civil," even pleasant, and different in tone from the talks that dragged on unsuccessfully during the eight-month strike. However, this round of talks has not reached the stage of full-blown bargaining. Tone won't produce an economic formula agreeable to both sides.
One segment of the meetings has focused on playing the playoffs and World Series without threat of interruption, not that anyone expects an interruption. Pension contribution and service time have been topics of critical conversation toward that end.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLORADO ROCKIES COLORADO ROCKIES (90%); COLORADO ROCKIES (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO ROCKIES COLORADO ROCKIES (90%); COLORADO ROCKIES (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (74%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY DON BAYLOR (86%); VINNY CASTILLA (77%); ANDRES GALARRAGA (59%); LARRY WALKER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



521 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 17; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: The Green Republican

BYLINE: By Keith Schneider; Keith Schneider, a former national environmental correspondent for The New York Times, is executive director of the Michigan Land Use Institute.

 BODY:

THE MAKING OF A CONSERVATIVE ENVIRONMENTALIST
With Reflections on Government, Industry, Scientists, the Media, Education, Economic Growth, the Public, the Great Lakes, Activists, and the Sunsetting
of Toxic Chemicals.
By Gordon K. Durnil.
200 pp. Bloomington:
Indiana University Press. $19.95. 
 IN 1992, an American-Canadian agency charged with overseeing the health of the Great Lakes surprised the White House, never mind governors in eight states bordering the lakes, by making a radical proposal. Convinced that the toxic byproducts of chlorine-based industrial compounds were harming wildlife and perhaps poisoning people, the panel called for phasing out one of the basic chemical feedstocks of modern manufacturing, straight elemental chlorine.
One might assume that the man behind such a noble gambit was a learned statesman and veteran environmentalist. Hardly. The recommendation's main champion was Gordon K. Durnil, the panel's American chairman, a Rush Limbaugh-loving conservative Republican from Indiana.
Here was a plain, middle-aged guy who freely admits that before being appointed by George Bush in 1989 to the International Joint Commission, a little-known but influential oversight agency that watches the Great Lakes, his closest brush with industrial ravage occurred while swimming with childhood friends in an abandoned waste pit they called Acid Lake. In fact, Mr. Durnil acknowledges in "The Making of a Conservative Environmentalist" that he possessed absolutely no qualifications for one of the continent's senior environmental posts, other than having served as Republican party chairman in Indiana and cultivating a close political friendship with former Vice President Dan Quayle.
How could such a naif advance one of the single boldest environmental policy ideas of the 1990's? The answer, we are told, is a simple tale of personal discovery. A Midwestern party operative late in life suddenly awakens to find truth in the popular concern for the safety of the earth. The message is that if someone as conventional and as conservative as Mr. Durnil can latch on to one of the great social transformations of the American century, then so can every other Republican in the country.
The fact that they have not, particularly this year when Republican leaders in the House and the Senate are desperately trying to unravel 25 years of environmental regulation, has Mr. Durnil in a gentlemanly lather. Instead of listening to the drumbeat of broad public support for clean air and clean water, Mr. Durnil writes, conservative lawmakers are stoking their campaigns with corporate cash and adopting the knuckleheaded antiregulatory ideas of lobbyists.
It is an easy trap to fall into. As a professional party insider, Mr. Durnil says he watched unquestioningly as industrial money made his campaigns' wheels turn. But as an international policy adviser advocating a position at odds with that of his old lobbyist friends, Mr. Durnil writes, he saw how insidiously industry wielded its influence. "On my tour with the International Joint Commission I watched the chemical industry, through its lobbyists, fight any potential for change and then try to avoid responsibility for its actions." He adds, "Rather than join the dialogue regarding the responsibility we all have to future generations, their typical tactic was to disrupt such dialogue."
Such firsthand reporting makes this earnest book both exasperating and intriguing. Mr. Durnil draws few substantive conclusions about what he witnessed, other than the obvious: industry plays by its own rules and ordinary people are getting hurt. The book also leaves too many questions unanswered. What, for example was the reaction of Mr. Quayle -- who spent his tenure as Vice President advocating that restrictions on industry be reduced -- when his Indiana political buddy urged a ban on industrial uses of chlorine, an act tantamount to ending the cutting of forests for paper and lumber?
Still, Mr. Durnil has some useful observations after five years in the trenches of the environmental policy wars. Scientists, he says, are too reticent about recommending action, despite having enough evidence to do so. Environmentalists are prone to drifting off into "dream-world words." The press suffers from a "lack of preparedness," and most government officials, he says, behave as though they'd been injected with "a shot of Novocain."
Given this striking lack of leadership, Mr. Durnil says, there is ample opportunity for Republicans to reap long-lasting political benefits by taking a new interest in safeguarding health and nature. Alas, that is a lesson that too many conservatives still seem not the least bit interested in learning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MAKING OF A CONSERVATIVE ENVIRONMENTALIST, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (58%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (58%); INTERNATIONAL JOINT COMMISSION (55%); INTERNATIONAL JOINT COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (58%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (58%); INTERNATIONAL JOINT COMMISSION (55%); INTERNATIONAL JOINT COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); INDIANA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); LAKES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); COMMODITY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); CHLORINE (77%); CHEMICALS MFG (77%); LITERATURE (74%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH; DURNIL, GORDON K GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



522 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Famous Long Ago

BYLINE: By Anthony Gottlieb; Anthony Gottlieb is on the staff of The Economist. He is writing a history of Western philosophy.

 BODY:

HYPATIA OF ALEXANDRIA
By Maria Dzielska.
Translated by F. Lyra.
157 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University Press. $29.95. 
 THE transformation of Hypatia of Alexandria into St. Catherine of Alexandria is arguably the biggest act of chutzpah in hagiography. A pagan scholar and philosopher, Hypatia was wise, virtuous, adored by those who flocked to hear her and a fearsome match for any intellectual opponent. She was murdered by her Christian enemies in 415 because they could not shut her up in any other way. Even better, from a dramatic point of view, or so Hypatia's legend came to have it, this beautiful young virgin was tortured by a gang of slobbering men before they finished her off. Such a story was much too good to waste on a non-Christian. So the colorful tale was expropriated in the Middle Ages and recast with Catherine, a fourth-century Christian murdered by pagans, in the starring role instead. According to the old hagiographies, this St. Catherine was put on the wheel and killed because she cleverly confuted the pagan sophists sent to argue her out of her faith. It sounded better that way.
Half of the truth behind this historical mix-up began to emerge in the 16th century, when the myth of St. Catherine was punctured. But Hypatia started to attract her own mythmakers -- who are active to this day, as Maria Dzielska of the Jagiellonian University in Cracow shows in this fascinating study. Ever since Hypatia got a good write-up from Voltaire and in Gibbon's "Decline and Fall," she has enjoyed a secular version of canonization. She may never have become the patron saint of wheelwrights, mechanics and the University of Paris or the tutelary saint of nuns and virgins or had a firework named after her, but Hypatia has inspired a large and fanciful literature. For more than two centuries, she has popped up in plays, poems and novels in English, Italian, German and French. She is the heroine of at least three recent historical novels. Two feminist academic journals have taken her name.
Hypatia was, like her father, a distinguished mathematician as well as the leading Platonic philosopher of her day. She commanded respect not only as a teacher and a paragon of probity but as a wise counselor in civil affairs. But unfortunately for her, she was hated by the local bishop (later canonized as St. Cyril), whose men dragged her off and killed her. Because she was not a Christian, because she had scientific interests and because she lived toward the very end of ancient civilization, she has been portrayed as a defender of science against religion, as a doomed representative of the values of pre-Christian antiquity and as the last candle of free inquiry to be snuffed out before the long night of clerical scholasticism. In his "History of Western Philosophy," Bertrand Russell wrote of "the lynching of Hypatia, a distinguished lady who, in an age of bigotry, adhered to the Neoplatonic philosophy and devoted her talents to mathematics. . . . After this Alexandria was no longer troubled by philosophers."
In fact, Hypatia was not the end of anything. Philosophy and science flourished in Alexandria a full century after her death (most notably in the person of John Philoponus, a Christian writer on physics and philosophy who was so astonishingly ahead of his time that he tends to be left out of history in order to keep the story simple). Nor, it seems, was Hypatia a martyr to paganism. Although she was certainly no believer in Christianity, she did not attend pagan temples either, or join those who opposed their conversion into churches. Some of her pupils were Christians, two of whom later became bishops.
The conclusion of Ms. Dzielska's meticulous and convincing argument is that Hypatia was assassinated for political reasons. She was caught in the middle of a struggle for power between Cyril and Orestes, the imperial prefect of Alexandria, with whom she was friendly. Cyril feared that such a powerful supporter made Orestes unbeatable, so he encouraged rumors that she was a witch and a troublemaker. A gang of Christian thugs employed by Cyril -- Alexandria was a rough place in those days -- apparently took matters into their own hands and decided to do the boss a favor by getting her out of the way. It seems that friends of Cyril's also beat up Orestes. In short, Hypatia was simply in the wrong place at the wrong time with the wrong friends.
None of Ms. Dzielska's evidence undermines her subject's appeal, unless you insist on having your heroines young. (It emerges that Hypatia was about 60 when she died.) In fact, her stature grows in the course of the author's trawl through letters, near-contemporary documents and the latest scholarship in obscure journals. This gem of academic detective work may be the last word on a subject that has fascinated for centuries. Perhaps, though, it will provide a starting point for even better novels.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HYPATIA OF ALEXANDRIA (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (53%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); FRANCE (53%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); PHILOSOPHY (78%); LITERATURE (77%); RELIGION (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); HISTORY (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: GOTTLIEB, ANTHONY; DZIELSKA, MARIA MARIA DZIELSKA (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



523 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 2; Page 16; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: RECORDINGS VIEW;
New Age Mists Envelop Traditional Irish Songs

BYLINE: By DAVID BROWNE; David Browne is the music critic for Entertainment Weekly.

 BODY:
AS YET ANOTHER SIGN that it's a small world after all, yesterday's Mongolian field recordings are today's accompaniment for Upper East Side wine and cheese parties. Ambient techno bands pepper their spacy noodlings with the bleatings of Asian folk singers; last year's brunch album of choice was a collection of centuries-old Gregorian chants.
It was only a matter of time before the same transformation overcame traditional Celtic music. Several years ago, the Irish folk-pop band Clannad had a worldwide hit with "Theme from Harry's Game," but it's unlikely that anyone did the jig to it. The song, with its breathy harmony singing and utter lack of rhythm, was the musical equivalent of a dark, tranquil moor. It could have easily passed for a movie theme or a car commercial. In fact, it was both -- the soundtrack of "Patriot Games" and the music for a Volkswagen ad. 
 "Theme From Harry's Game" is included on the new Clannad compilation, "Themes," one of a series of inaugural releases on Atlantic's new Celtic Heartbeat label. Along with Enya's "The Celts" and a slew of other new releases, the albums epitomize the vogue of Celtic New Age music, not for a pub but for the coffee bar just down the street from it.
The pioneer of Celtic easy-listening music is the Irish pianist Phil Coulter, who has brought his orchestrated, Mantovani-o'-the-mist instrumentals to concert halls in both England and America. Yet a new generation has taken that sound one step further. Celtic New Age has none of the rough-hewn voices, hearty sing-alongs, "diddley diddley" rhythms, or breakneck fiddle or accordion solos of the traditional style. Instead, the songs are wrapped in an electronic gauze and have only hints of folk melodies, and those melodies aren't so much sung as exhaled.
If this loftier, headier style has a Woody Guthrie, it is Enya (Eithne Ni Bhraonain), a former member of Clannad whose multiplatinum, smooth-as-ice albums "Watermark" and "Shepherd's Moon" have been heard at chic bistros as well as on the soundtrack of "Baywatch." "The Celts" (Reprise) isn't actually a new album; comprising music for a BBC series of the same name, it was first released in 1987 and has been remixed (it also includes one new track). Because it is a soundtrack, some of its songs last barely over a minute, and none have the quirky hooks of Enya's hit "Orinoco Flow (Sail Away)." Yet with its all-encompassing vocal massage, synthesizers that emulate harpsichords and its doe-eyed, soul-searching laments ("Don't know why/ Thoughts desert me"), it is quintessential Enya.
Enya's sister, Maire Brennan of Clannad, has a voice that matches her sibling's for purity but is even more of a blank slate. It is, unfortunately, an all-too-perfect match for the music. Clannad's "Themes," made up of songs written for, or used in, movies and television commercials, engulfs her voice in the band's watered-down pop. An occasional hint of tension arises -- as in the arresting chorus of "I Will Find You," Clannad's contribution to the 1992 movie "The Last of the Mohicans" -- but mostly the results are musical Irish oatmeal.
On her own, as on her latest solo album, "Misty Eyed Adventures" (Atlantic), Ms. Brennan takes a few more chances, tossing into the mix rattling percussion or an almost buoyant jig. But she often comes across as a second-hand Enya, offering a lifeless ode to the Irish climbers who conquered Mr. Everest ("The Mighty One") or zapping the spunk out of Joni Mitchell's cheeky ecology song, "Big Yellow Taxi."
The influence of both Enya and Clannad is heard in several other new recordings. "The Old Man and the Sea" (Mesa), the debut album by the Scottish trio the Color of Memory, favors the same mix of stultifying, breathy singing and abstract lyrics ("Into my own, guiding the light, enter the stream"). Bland as it is, the group is downright emotive compared with the Irish choir Anuna. Its debut album, "Anuna" (Celtic Heartbeat/Atlantic), sounds like an attempt to cash in on the Gregorian-chant craze. With harmonies that are pristine but often bloodless, the album comes off like accompaniment for a museum tour.
Celtic New Age has also left its mark on instrumental music, where tastefulness is emphasized over passion. "Blue Shamrock (Celtic Heartbeat/Atlantic), a collection of guitar and bouzouki pieces by the guitarist Alec Finn of the eclectic traditional band DeDannan, is little more than pleasant. More ambitious is Marie Breatnach's "The Voyage of Bran" (Celtic Heartbeat/Atlantic), a concept album not about keeping the digestive system regular but about the voyage of an 8th-century Irish sailor. The album runs aground with too many fusion saxophone instrumentals, but Ms. Breatnach's fiddle waltzes are often moving.
Even if some of this music makes listeners feel as if they are trapped in a Dublin elevator, the new Irish and Scottish chill-out music raises important questions: Should folk music resolutely hew to tradition? Or should it adapt to the times?
Perhaps an analogy to Celtic folk's American cousin, country music, provides an answer to that question. In America, young country fans relate more to the likes of Garth Brooks than to grizzled veterans like Waylon Jennings and Willie Nelson; the new country sound, a hybrid of 70's singer-songwriter pop and Southern rock, speaks to them, as do the song's themes of suburban angst. The same goes for Celtic New Age and its audience. If anything, the Irish have even more problems to confront, like staggeringly high unemployment.
Given such circumstances, the new genre of Celtic New Age pop is, in its own way, as much of its time as American country. It is music that reacts to the deep problems of the contemporary British Isles, not with leaps and bounds but with one long, sorrowful sigh.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marie Breatnach--Often moving fiddle waltzes, but too many fusion saxophone instrumentals.; Maire Brennan of Clannad. (Photographs from Atlantic Records)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: VWA (AMS) (56%); VW (SWX) (56%); VOW (FRA) (56%); VOA (PAR) (56%); VKW (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) MUSIC (92%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC GENRES (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (77%); MUSIC REVIEWS (73%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (73%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, DAVID ENYA 'ENYA' BRENNAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



524 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 13; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
Suburban Dreams and Nightmares

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
MOTHER is alcoholic. Dad is broke. Sister is promiscuous and brother is a superficial fool. Welcome to "A Cheever Evening," a sampler of the lowly emotional, psychic and moral estate of elite wannabes, as disserved by A. R. Gurney at the Westport Country Playhouse.
Though Mr. Gurney has long labored under the influence of John Cheever, the similarity between the two writers is skin deep; the differences as disparate as hollowness and vastness. Cheever wrote with a sense of mortal pain that does not intrude on Mr. Gurney's terrain. It's not for nothing that Mr. Gurney has been, by now tiresomely, labeled the official chronicler of WASP culture. 
 Cheever, who died at his home in Ossining in 1982 at the age of 70, evoked Chekhovian longings, plumbing the depths of the soul's unrest. Mr. Gurney writes of a safe discontent without alienation; Cheever dealt with spiritual unhappiness, whatever the cost.
Culling 17 Cheever stories into what he calls a theatrical tapestry, Mr. Gurney has assigned to six actors a multitude of roles. Interactive recitation alternates with dialogue that switches to description, in a flash, in a playgoer's digest of abridged selections to highlight predetermined themes. The evening serves up snippets of several stories, more extended selections from others, while excerpts of some recur in the context of still others.
In defeat of a grandly intended homage, the elegant prose of a masterly weaver of short stories becomes tedious and repetitive. It's a counterproductive thing that a little of "A Cheever Evening" goes a very long way.
It isn't long before one gets the point. This tapestry is laced with recriminations masked by proprieties, the "specious rites and ceremonies," the all-consuming concealments of suburbia's entrapments.
Here is a last generation of "captives of financial and sentimental commitments." They settle in apartments near Sutton Place until houses in Scarsdale are graspable.
Then they bicker, recalling better times. What happens as soon as they get what they presumably want? They wallow in sheer pointlessness. Husbands are bored with their wives' extravagances. Wives are fed up with their husbands' insensitivities. Miserable relationships. Disastrous marriages. Adultery. Divorce. And so it goes.
This is the world of smooth roads, manicured lawns, boarding schools, dancing schools, schools excellent and exclusive, schools restricted and segregated.
"Where have we gone wrong?" is the question of the evening. It is followed by "Is divorce so dreadful?" and "Is marriage the most wonderful thing in the world?"
"We're happy, aren't we?" asks one wife.
"Of course we're happy," insists her husband, gulping hard, eyes rolling.
Married for 20 years, one husband remarks after dinner: "And somehow we made it through another meal."
While this sort of story-theater style sounds like an actor's dream, it doesn't work out that way, although Jennifer Van Dyck, of last year's original Off Broadway cast with Jack Gilpin, is effective at registering free-floating dread. Yet, because of the sketchiness of the pieces, there's little chance to explore character, except in terms of knee-jerk desperation or shallow caricature.
Because Dana Ivey, in particular, is so accomplished at icy remove and real sophisticated wit, one has the odd sense that she could have phoned it all in. That includes her stints as a wife whining about her ailments, a woman coveting her neighbor's luxuries, a renegade 78-year-old waltzing on ice at Rockefeller Center and a hoity-toity mother who prefers flowers to food (if given the choice) and had no tolerance for Jews.
Jonathan Walker plays a boozy father dragging his underage son (Laurence Luckinbill) from one restaurant to another for lunch. But no one will serve the teen-ager a martini. The story is "Reunion"; none are identified in the program. Mr. Luckinbill and Karen Valentine play lovers meeting clandestinely.
Ms. Valentine is also a "sweet little daughter," a new wife in town ("The Chaste Clarissa") who is "as stupid as she is beautiful," a grown-up daughter regressing to having tantrums on the floor, and a vindictive wife who shrieks: "You've ruined my life" to the husband who goes on calling her sweetheart. Meanwhile, she pours lighter fluid on the salad and bastes the lamb chops with pesticide.
Mr. Luckinbill as an unemployed midnight robber breaks into neighbors' homes to steal their money, safe in the knowledge that he won't disrupt the deep sleep of those who "fight a lot and drink a lot." That's from the story "The Housebreaker of Shady Hill."
Neither Mr. Luckinbill nor Ms. Valentine, under Nicholas Martin's understated direction, rise to the showy opportunites of the transitions from character to character.
No matter that the second act moves from the "hill towns" of Westchester to a rented New England seaside house where summer folks look to "rent their happiness." The air remains static and claustrophobic, with all credits to Susan Roth's subtle lighting shifts.
Besides gin and vermouth, old-fashioneds, Scotch ("What Republicans drink") and even a glass of port are ever-recurring reinforcements. Given the glossy veneer with which Mr. Gurney has condensed Cheever's concerns, one character's advice ("Make yourself a drink") sounds like a ripping idea rather than denial's despairing command.
"A Cheever Evening," Westport Country Playhouse, 25 Powers Court, Westport. 227-4177. Performances through Saturday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laurence Luckinbill, Jennifer Van Dyck and Karen Valentine in "A Cheever Evening" by A. R. Gurney, playing at the Westport Country Playhouse through Saturday. (Jayson Byrd)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CHEEVER EVENING, A (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: WESTPORT COUNTRY PLAYHOUSE

ORGANIZATION: WESTPORT COUNTRY PLAYHOUSE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (91%); THEATER (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); MARRIAGE (85%); WRITERS (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); SUBURBS (63%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (60%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (60%); DANCE EDUCATION (60%); 

PERSON: GURNEY, A R; KLEIN, ALVIN JOHN CHEEVER (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



525 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: Life After The Westchester: All Business

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
HITE PLAINS
FIVE months after an upscale regional shopping center opened for business here, other retail activity in the city appears to be thriving -- deflecting for now predictions from some quarters that an older shopping area, a discount center and other smaller stores would languish in the shadows of The Westchester's 2.5 million square feet.
Retail business is up citywide, which in the last two years has become the major shopping destination between New York City and Stamford. And each shopping area seems to have targeted a different type of customer -- what analysts refer to as niche marketing. 
 At the Galleria, a 15-year-old mall less than a mile from The Westchester, the lines at checkout counters last weekend were long with back-to-school shoppers, who did not need a retail analyst to tell them why the older, smaller and less-glitzy shopping center continued to draw crowds.
"The bottom line is that the price is right here," said Doris King, a shopper at Waldenbooks in the Galleria. "I like visiting The Westchester because it's so pretty, but it's too expensive for my pocketbook."
Some customers shop both malls. And like Mark Kaplow, who was at the 880,000-square-foot Galleria last weekend with his wife, Pamela, and their twin sons, 9-year-old Scott and Jeff, those customers visit each for a different reason.
"We're at the Galleria to buy posters for the boys, and for that we don't need a Neiman Marcus," Mr. Kaplow said, referring to one of the anchor stores at The Westchester.
By contrast to the price-conscious shopper at the Galleria, those frequenting The Westchester's 118 stores are "an upscale clientele, customers with household incomes of $95,000 and more," said John P. Hoeller, the manager of The Westchester. He said that mall's two anchors, Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom, "set the tone for us."
While Nordstrom markets itself as a mid-priced value-oriented department store, it also features live piano music and other upscale shopping amenities. Neiman Marcus unabashedly markets itself as a store for the well-heeled, with its Christmas catalogue last year featuring a jeweled teddy bear for $200,000.
At the Galleria, two moderate-price department stores, J. C. Penney and Stern's, anchor the 150 shops there and cater to "a mid-price audience," said Cindy Bohde, vice president for the Urban Retail Properties Company in Chicago.
"Each mall appeals to very different audiences," she said, "and one doesn't take away from the other."
Stores at the Galleria -- which underwent a $12 million face-lifting last year on its 14th birthday -- earn about $400 a year per square foot, "which is very, very good for a shopping center," she said.
Projecting early sales, Mr. Hoeller at The Westchester said stores there also appear to be earning about $400 a square foot, with Williams-Sonoma, Pottery Barn, Crate and Barrel, Ann Taylor and Eileen Fisher among the top performers.
Adding to an already full retail equation, the Westchester Pavilion, which is close to The Westchester, offers shoppers 173,000 square feet of discount stores like the Sports Authority, Borders Books and Music, Office Max and Toys 'R' Us. The Pavilion, too, is thriving, said Carl R. Esser, a director for Jones Lang Wootton Retail Management in Dallas. "One mall feeds off the other, like automobile dealers in the same area," he said.
Shortly after the Westchester Pavilion opened last year, it was beset with lawsuits from unpaid contractors and possible foreclosure proceedings. It was sold by its original owner, Fischer Reese Associates of White Plains, to the State of Wisconsin Investment Board, which took over the mall's mortgage and hired Jones Lang Wootton Retail Management. Remaining legal actions, mainly liens by contractors, including C. W. Brown of Thornwood against some of the mall's tenants, "have nothing to do with the mall itself," Mr. Esser said.
The Westchester Pavilion is considered a power mall, and its tenants are referred to as "category killers" because they offer extensive discount selections in many categories of merchandise. Mr. Esser said the tenants were "doing $300 to $500 a square foot of business a year, which is excellent for big-box retailers."
Not to be left out of the burgeoning retail scene, Saks Fifth Avenue, which is across the street from The Westchester, announced plans earlier this month to renovate its 120,000-square-foot store and to bring in other retailers on the six-acre site there.
Bloomingdale's, too, has announced plans to expand its 250,000-square-foot store, which is less than a mile from Saks Fifth Avenue and The Westchester on a site owned by New York Hospital. Bloomingdale's leases the property from the hospital under the terms of a 99-year agreement.
In the face of increasing economic pressure, the hospital announced plans in the spring to allow for expansion of the 20-year-old Bloomingdale's store and the construction of a supermarket, upscale restaurant and perhaps another department store.
Geoff Thompson, a partner in Thompson & Bender, a public-relations firm that represents the hospital, said New York Hospital planned to situate one of the entrances to its park-like shopping area near the main entrance to The Westchester, to reduce the distance between them. "Bloomingdale's was feeling isolated," he said, "and it was not unaware of the competition."
One retail analyst observed that Bloomingdale's and Saks were taking risks in expanding to meet the competition, but that their decisions appeared well-calculated.
"They're making an educated guess that they have to either remodel or leave town, because if they don't spiff up now, they may not be in the game in a few years," said Howard L. Davidowitz, chairman of the retail analysts Davidowitz & Associates in Manhattan.
White Plains -- which in an earlier heyday was called the City of 1,000 Stores and may soon deserve that description again -- offers yet another option for shoppers: a 352,000-square-foot Macy's department store near the Galleria.
But Federated Department Stores, which owns Macy's, agreed last year to sell its White Plains store and five others in an antitrust agreement with G. Oliver Koppell, who was then State Attorney General. Mr. Koppell no longer holds that post, and because the agreement was never made final, the store may remain open. Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco has been studying the matter.
Mary Ann Shannon, a Federated spokeswoman, would not say if the White Plains store would close or remain open. She also refused to comment on unconfirmed reports that Macy's would co-anchor the new Bloomingdale's shopping area.
Meanwhile, some analysts are worried about whether the current wealth of different shopping experiences in White Plains can survive the competition.
"We think the market in White Plains is becoming oversaturated, redundant," said Robert E. Kerson, managing partner for the retail analysts Levy, Kerson, Aronson & Associates in Manhattan. "There's a lot of cross-shopping among the better stores like Bloomingdale's, Nordstrom's, Saks and Neiman Marcus."
He said that despite public relations comments to the contrary his firm believes The Westchester got off to a slower start than expected and that the Galleria is struggling to keep pace. "You have to wonder about how these malls are really doing, because there is only a certain amount of disposable income in an area," Mr. Kerson said.
But Mr. Hoeller said The Westchester was logging close to 12,000 cars in its parking areas on a Saturday and up to 7,500 cars on Sundays and weekdays. "That is precisely as we expected," he said.
While Ms. Bohde at the Galleria did not have comparable figures, she said that of the 112 regional shopping centers managed by Urban Retail Properties, the Galleria continued to be a "top performer."
In general, retail observers saw the intense competition as healthy. The city's Finance Commissioner, John T. Powell, reported that sales-tax receipts were up 25 percent for the fiscal year 1994-95, and at least some of that was attributable to the opening of The Westchester and other new retail activity in the city.
Stefanie Elkins, a spokeswoman for the International Council of Shopping Centers in Manhattan, said that each mall in White Plains was "fulfilling a need."
She also said that in general, the principle of clustering of malls and shopping centers works well, because shoppers begin to view an area as "a retail destination."
A similar clustering of retailers has taken place in Buckland Hills in Connecticut in the last five years. "One opened and the others followed," she said. "The competition was more helpful than harmful."
"But as far as White Plains goes, the situation bears watching," she said. "We have to see how it all shakes down."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shoppers at The Westchester, above, and the Galleria Food Court from a balcony, top. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER (WHITE PLAINS, NY, SHOPPING MALL) NEIMAN MARCUS GROUP INC (85%); URBAN RETAIL PROPERTIES CO /SOUTHRIDGE MANAGEMENT (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER (WHITE PLAINS, NY, SHOPPING MALL)

GEOGRAPHIC: WHITE PLAINS (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (50%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA CARL R ESSER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



526 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Page 124; Column 1; Fashions of The Times Magazine

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: BEACH DREAMS

BYLINE: By CYNTHIA ZARIN; Cynthia Zarin's most recent book of poems is "Fire Lyric." She is a frequent contributor to The Times Magazine.

 BODY:
The paraphernalia of summer is different from the trappings of fall. In summer the dowry of the world turns Day-Glo; what in autumn will be somber, hemstitched, restrained, in summer is silly, outre, a mess. The shy student who in October will wear a black beret enlivened by one small diamante pin in summer slouches slack-jawed by the water, wearing a hat the color of a tiger lily. To Henry Adams, writing about his boyhood in New England a century and a half ago, summer was drunken and winter was school. When I was a child my parents owned a bungalow in the woods with a view of a cove; when we arrived I would go around the back of the house and look for my reflection, 11 months older, in the kitchen window. The bayberry and scrub pine shone greenly through me so that I became, in the wavy kitchen glass, not a product of the heavy, ponderous year but a mirage, a figment of summer. For the last 15 or 20 years, through the Indian summer of adolescence, through marriage and motherhood, I have worn exactly the same clothes in August; paradoxically, it is the month in which I have thought most elaborately about clothes. In other months I have dressed like a mountaineer, like Hippolyta, like a French chambermaid, like a schoolboy, like Janis Joplin. Some years it is a wearing business, and sometimes it is less so.
Through it I observe with passion and awe my friends whose dress stays constant: for a time I worked alongside a woman who had made whatever economies were necessary to wear only clothes by Sonia Rykiel. One morning she appeared in a Missoni jacket; it was as if she had joined a vaudeville troupe and changed her name. I am deeply envious of what others might see as obsession but I see as organization of a high order; this envy accompanies my desire for the contemplative life, for convents and the hush of long corridors, for vespers and ecclesiastical dress. In this guise I imagine myself aging in a small but not provincial town -- Vezelay or Bevagna -- wearing a wool skirt by Valentino, a blouse and very good shoes, worn but cared for.
But in August the costume designer in me is visiting her aged mother in Cap d'Antibes. Content in her absence I wear an Indian-print wrap skirt, old enough for a coming-out party, and a gray T-shirt with a picture of a steer and a slogan that reads, "TEXAS RANGERS." I have no affiliation with Texas, nor any with the location advertised by my other summer shirt: "The Beurre Blanc Yacht Club." I have a pair of gray shorts, a pair of mustard, too-short linen pants from Fiorucci that were given over to me by the first wife of a childhood sweetheart, and a sundress printed with menacing tropical fish. There is also a cotton jacket in an unpleasant shade of blue. None of these garments is remotely becoming. They smell of salt, and I cling to them because they are my summer skin. Years ago my mother had a pink hooded sweatshirt that she wore at the beach. During the winter months of exile from the ocean I would go to the cupboard and bury my face in it.
If we are lucky, as children in summer we are covered in salt and sand and scratched by brambles; we don't think for a minute about what we wear because we live in our skins. Ten years later on the same spit of sand we think without ceasing about what we wear because we have become naked in the garden; we fear not the sun but the harsh, curious gazes of our friends. When we grow up, we live again in our skins; we care, but not as desperately, about our bodies, which have after all been put to use and which in any case are buried in the sand every day by our children. Like workers on a vast plain we wear large hats to shield our faces from the sun; our bathing suits are like armor for beetles.
A moment later it is September. Like children we pull up our socks, buckle our shoes, button our overcoats, but the questions for those of us still deep in the dress-up box are: What socks? Which shoes? Whose overcoat?
I cling to my summer clothes as a charm both for and against change. To wear them is to become again the mirage in the window who, for that moment, could be anyone, but who still needs, come the fall, to get dressed; to wear them is evidence that, indeed, as anyone can see, I have nothing to wear. "Beware of all enterprises that require new clothes," wrote Thoreau. Beware, comes a voice, of those that don't. "Three prs. black tights," "School shoes (green suede??)," "Brown velvet dress p. 83," read the lists that surface now and then, written decades ago, as I sat with my mother on the beach studying the premature fall fashion magazines, from which sheathed, impossibly elegant versions of ourselves beckoned like silent screen stars. "WHITE dress. Buckles?" reads a later, cryptic list. It is an easy thing to do at the edge of the water: to rummage among the bright pages for a scarf, a hat, an evening gown, here at the tail end of summer, where the earliest creatures first crawled out on land and tried on their new shadows.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); TEXAS, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available FASHION DESIGNERS (71%); RELIGION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



527 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 9; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: The Companies He Keeps

BYLINE: By John Rothchild; John Rothchild is the financial columnist for Time magazine and the co-author of the Peter Lynch books, "One Up on Wall Street" and "Beating the Street."

 BODY:

BUFFETT
The Making of an American Capitalist.
By Roger Lowenstein.
Illustrated. 473 pp. New York:
Random House.
$27.50. 
 BACK when he was only a millionaire, Warren E. Buffett took the tour of William Randolph Hearst's castle at San Simeon. Fed up with hearing the tour guide recite the prices Hearst had paid for the contents, Mr. Buffett apparently piped up: "Don't tell us how he spent it. Tell us how he made it!" In this engaging biography, Roger Lowenstein tells not only how Mr. Buffett made it but how he has managed to avoid spending it -- the most fascinating part of the story.
By the latest tally, Warren Buffett is running neck and neck with Bill Gates as the richest man in the country. In the annals of American tycoonery, we've seen shipping magnates, oil barons, media moguls and real estate developers reach the pinnacle of wealth, but Mr. Buffett is the first stock picker. His $10 billion is an inspiration to stock pickers everywhere, and also a painful reminder that the rest of us must have been picking the wrong stocks.
Much has been written about Mr. Buffett's methods, but far less about the man, so there were a lot of blanks for Mr. Lowenstein, a Wall Street Journal reporter, to fill with "Buffett: The Making of an American Capitalist." He ran into an immediate problem: the best source wasn't talking. Mr. Buffett played the sphinx (as he often does with writers), neither collaborating nor interfering, leaving it up to Mr. Lowenstein to figure him out. It's the same hands-off approach Mr. Buffett takes with managers at the various companies in which he owns the biggest chunk of the shares.
Free to pursue the Buffett topic without undue influence from Mr. Buffett, Mr. Lowenstein coaxed details out of his subject's children, cronies, business partners, high school chums and many others. The result is a delightful portrait of a homespun capitalist straight out of Carl Sandburg, until you get to the exceptions. Mr. Buffett has little use for Wall Street shenanigans, except that he got himself involved in the recent turmoil at Salomon Brothers; he enjoys simple pleasures ("All Warren needs to be happy is a book and a 60-watt bulb," his wife once said), except for the corporate jet; he lives in semi-seclusion in Omaha, except when he's hobnobbing with the likes of Bill Clinton or Dolly Parton; he and his wife are still married, except that he hasn't lived with her in almost 20 years. He lives with someone else, but continues to see his wife.
Mr. Buffett's cradle wasn't papered with stock certificates, but there were numerous indications of what lay ahead. Born in 1930, he was, by the age of 4, running around the house with a money-changer strapped to his belt. At 7 he suffered a mysterious and near-fatal illness that landed him in a hospital bed. Almost delirious, he handed the nurse a page of scrawled calculations and told her they represented his future capital. Like John D. Rockefeller, Warren Buffett knew he was destined to be rich, and wasn't shy about saying so.
In adolescence, Mr. Buffett was a walking conglomerate of profitable enterprises: selling tip sheets to bettors at the Omaha race track; running two paper routes simultaneously; scavenging for out-of-bounds golf balls that he then resold to the previous owners; buying Cokes wholesale in six-packs and peddling them retail to the summer crowd at the local lake; installing secondhand pinball machines in barbershops, in direct competition with the Mafia.
The budding capitalist was hoarding his capital by instinct, looking for a theory to channel his pecuniary drive, attracted to stocks but not to Wall Street. He found his mentor in the classroom of the Columbia University professor Benjamin Graham. Graham had made a discovery that was revolutionary at the time: stocks are not poker chips; they are claim checks on businesses that have real worth.
This was in the 1950's, when stock prices had only recently returned to the highs they'd set in 1929, and when the very words "stock market" evoked the same image as the words "Las Vegas" do today. Individuals didn't invest in stocks so much as "play the market." When people thought of great fortunes made on Wall Street, they thought of the robber barons of the 19th century, or the banking tycoons whose antics had been investigated by Congress after the crash of '29. Mr. Buffett has proved you can get rich on stocks without scandal, and Ben Graham taught him how to do it.
The United States economy was entering a new era of stability, in which recessions no longer led to depressions or panics, and companies, for the first time in American history, were making steady profits. Suddenly, Warren Buffett had found his calling: searching for the bargains that Graham called "cigar butts," companies whose intrinsic value was greater than the market value of their stock. This required math, at which Mr. Buffett excelled; a maverick's disdain for conventional wisdom, which he had; plus money to buy the stocks, which he soon raised.
In the 1960's, Mr. Buffett acquired a controlling interest in a textile mill, Berkshire Hathaway, which he has used ever since as a holding company for all his other cigar butts (Coca-Cola, Gillette, Capital Cities/ ABC, the Washington Post Company, etc.). Since Berkshire Hathaway is publicly traded, anybody could have invested right along with him, including this reviewer, who is still kicking himself for not having risked $1,000 on the man after coming into contact with him in the early 1970's. That $1,000 would be worth $368,000 today.
Beyond the stock-picking arena, Mr. Lowenstein breaks new ground with his annals of Buffett the skinflint. By my rough calculation, Mr. Buffett could give himself an allowance of $8 million a month without dipping into his capital, yet he continues to reside in Omaha, in the same house he bought in 1957 for $31,500. The housekeeper comes in once every two weeks.
Mr. Lowenstein tells us how Katharine Graham, when she was the publisher of The Washington Post, once found herself in an airport with Mr. Buffett, The Post's biggest investor as well as her confidant and sometime dinner companion. She needed to make a quick phone call and asked him for the dime (the going rate in those days). He fished a quarter out of his pocket and wandered off to get change. "Warren," Mrs. Graham snapped, "give me the quarter!"
When his wife purchased $15,000 worth of home furnishings, he complained to a friend, "Do you know how much that is if you compound it over 20 years?" This is an important clue to Mr. Buffett's modus operandi. He's always thinking in terms of the future value of money, so every dollar spent today is a lost opportunity to make $10 a few years out. This may be the best argument for penny-pinching ever devised.
Mr. Lowenstein also makes a great deal of the fact that Mr. Buffett hangs on to everything: his house; his Cherry Cokes (in the 1980's he took the drastic step of switching from Pepsi); the shares in his portfolio, where the annual turnover is less than the daily turnover of the average mutual fund; and his shares in Berkshire Hathaway (he's never sold a single one).
He has hung on to his wife as well. She's Susan Buffett, a nurturing and sympathetic companion who tenderized Mr. Buffett and brought out the best in him, but then left him during a midlife crisis in 1977 to pursue other interests, principally torch singing. Mr. Buffett refused to let go, even after she helped fix him up with a replacement in Omaha, Astrid Menks. To this day, he escorts Mrs. Buffett to various functions outside of Omaha and lives happily with Ms. Menks in Omaha. "If you knew everybody well, you'd understand it quite well," Mr. Buffett has said of this curious troika.
 MR. BUFFETT has also maintained a close relationship with his three children by Susan, but as you might have guessed, very little money is trickling down. He has long contended that inherited wealth is bad for the recipients, as well as for society in general. Kay Graham may have persuaded him to soften his stance and at least leave his children a week's worth of interest in his will; otherwise, the rest is going to charity in what promises to be the biggest bequest in history.
Generally, Mr. Lowenstein sticks to the facts and refrains from psychoanalyzing the man he's never interviewed, except in the spots where he talks about Mr. Buffett's death phobia. Is it possible, Mr. Lowenstein wonders, that the real reason he amassed all of those billions and held on to his wife, his stocks, his house and his Cherry Coke is that he's terrified of facing the Grim Reaper alone? Is Berkshire Hathaway merely the barricade that stands between Mr. Buffett and the inevitable?
Aside from this odd and unconvincing bit of speculation, everything else rings true, and Mr. Lowenstein has done a masterly job over all. Once again, Mr. Buffett was right not to meddle in the business at hand, and in spite of his not saying anything directly to the author, Mr. Lowenstein has picked up numerous examples of his wit. Here's an exchange from the annual meeting of Berkshire Hathaway, when a questioner in the crowd expressed fear of Mr. Buffett's death:
"I'm thinking of making a purchase of Berkshire," the person said, "but I'm concerned about something happening to you, Mr. Buffett. I cannot afford an event risk."
Came the reply: "Neither can I."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Warren E. Buffett as chairman of Salomon Brothers, an interim appointment, in 1991. Deryck C. Maughan, right, succeeded him. (THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

TITLE: BUFFETT: THE MAKING OF AN AMERICAN CAPITALIST (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (56%); 

CITY: OMAHA, NE, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (56%); OMAHA, NE, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); LITERATURE (75%); WRITERS (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); FARM LABOR (69%); 

PERSON: ROTHCHILD, JOHN; LOWENSTEIN, ROGER WARREN BUFFETT (94%); BILL GATES (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1995



528 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Where Good Bridges Make Good Neighbors

BYLINE: By Verlyn Klinkenborg; Verlyn Klinkenborg, the author of "Making Hay," is working on a book about horse trainers.

DATELINE: BIG HORN, Wyo.

 BODY:
It's been a good grass year in this part of Wyoming half a state away from the Presidential penumbra cast by the vacationing Clintons -- a late spring, plenty of water, intermittent thunderstorms, just enough rain to put some extra hurry into haying. My neighbors, Alan and Gayle Barnett and their two boys, are rushing, as all ranchers do in August, to use the light and heat of these long days in a way that won't bring regret come winter.
Last month, my girlfriend and I walked with Gayle and our dogs, Tavish and Rooster, up a gravel road to visit Alan at the haystacks he was building. It was nearly 10 P.M., and Alan had been up since 4:30 that morning. Light hung in the sky as though it was never going to grow dark. It had been a hot day and the bales still held the warmth of the sun -- "field heat," Alan calls it. 
 The ranchers I know have pretty much given up on the distinction between night and day. Last weekend, outside Riverton, 150 miles southeast of Jackson Hole, ranchers were cutting and raking and baling all through the night, partly to get out of the heat and partly for reasons you would understand if you saw how far toward the horizon the hayfields stretch.
The hay was a very dark green, with overtones of blue, and it dried rapidly in the fierce sun. I thought I had been given wheat straw to feed my horse until I broke into the bale and saw its color, as true an indicator of quality as the deep maroon tint of raw tuna. A grass year this good is a rare thing.
I had gone to Riverton for a horse-training clinic, and by the time I arrived I remembered that Wyoming is a state you have to drive all the way across just to get to the middle of. On the highway between Casper and Riverton, there's not much to look at. It's dry, dusty ground. From time to time a ranch road cuts away at right angles, headed somewhere beyond the next rise. Cattle tend to bottle up in the wet spots, and sheep, for some reason, seek the bare, eroded gullies, or perhaps it's just that they erode any gully they happen to occupy.
As good as the grass has been, that's how bad the cattle prices are this summer. I don't offer that as a formula, just fact. A friend of mine, the horse trainer I'd gone to Riverton to see, was working with a rank young colt, the kind of horse sometimes called a canner -- a grim reminder that the floor value of any horse is its price-per-pound at the slaughterhouse door. My friend said, "Cattle prices being what they are this year, you'd do better raising canners than cattle." It was a sad joke, and the small crowd standing around the corral laughed, appreciating its sadness.
There might have been more people at the horse-training clinic if the cattle prices weren't so bad. One thing dividing small ranchers from the rest of us is the trouble we have imagining what it's like when the amount of cash in your pocket depends directly on the dollar value of the beasts that are grazing your summer pasture. It's painful to think that your herd of cattle could be standing knee deep in good Wyoming grass, gaining weight and losing value.
When I got back from Riverton, I asked Alan Barnett about the talk I'd heard in Riverton of low cattle prices. "A friend just invited me to a big weekend roping," he said, nodding. "Seems like every weekend there's a big roping. But if you haven't got some extra cash, you don't go. We decided to put our effort into the boys' riding. It's what we wanted to do as a family."
I asked him why cattle prices had dropped, and he brought up the North American Free Trade Agreement. "Fat Canadian cattle, Mexican cattle being trucked to our slaughterhouses and sold on our streets," he said. "I'm open-minded. If Nafta's good for the economy of the whole country, that's just fine. But it sure is hurting us."
What's hurting is the fact that calves were selling for a dollar a pound 18 months ago; the other day Alan sold his at 66 cents. And though many ranchers blame Nafta for the drop, the rules in the industry didn't change when the trade agreement passed. Over the last four years, ranchers in the United States as well as Canada have built up their herds. Meanwhile, a drought in northern Mexico and the collapse of the peso, combined with the free trade pact, have driven substantial numbers of Mexican cattle into the American market.
Other than cattle prices, the Clintons' vacation up in the Rockefeller fastness at Jackson Hole has been the talk of Wyoming. There was even a rumor that the President was going to saddle up and join the Great American Cattle Drive, which passed through Sheridan this week -- men on horseback driving 250 cattle from Fort Worth to Miles City, Mont. But the nearest he has gotten to people who depend on livestock was a rain-drenched rodeo in Jackson Hole, to which he wore cowboy boots and a bolo tie.
What my neighbors tend to talk about is the Presidential cigars, the Presidential golf clubs, the Presidential walk along the shores of Jenny Lake. ("It's a great thing for our country to have something like this," he said. "Fabulous!") It's too bad that Mr. Clinton isn't able to vacation in the agricultural economy of Wyoming, rather than in its tourist economy. But then wherever a President goes he carries a tourist economy with him. As one rancher put it, the Clinton vacation "epitifies" Washington.
I asked Alan what he thought about the President's visit. "It's got nothing to do with us," he said, a note of dismissal in his voice. We talked about horses for a while, and then we talked about a wooden bridge that he and some friends and neighbors had rebuilt last month.
"My dad taught me and I'm trying to teach my boys that there's nothing worse than a bad neighbor," said Alan. "But there's nothing better than a good neighbor."
He paused, letting this thought drift back over our conversation, as if to suggest that the relationship between the Federal Government and farmers and ranchers should somehow go beyond agricultural policy and subsidies and trade agreements. His silence implied that even when its intentions are good, the Government rarely knows how to be a good neighbor. "Bill Clinton doesn't know what that bridge means to me," he added. "I couldn't have built it by myself. I couldn't have done it."
I had been one of the people at the bridge-building. It was another hot day, and to Alan it had probably been a relief to get out of the hayfields and into the cool water of Little Goose Creek. When we were finished pouring cement for the piers and abutments, each of us inscribed something -- a name, initials, a paw print -- in the wet cement. I found a horseshoe and we set that in cement, too. Then we sat in the shade in Alan's yard and had a beer.
Last night, I rode my horse over that bridge. The wood still looks green, and the lag bolts are still shiny. My horse, Adeline, is doing fine. I didn't know how fine until I took her to Riverton. She and I stood in the corral there, in some dire heat, hayfields all around us, and she made me look good. Looking westward from the corral I could see the Wind River Range shouldering its way up to the Tetons and Jackson Hole, which seemed farther away than it ever had. I tried to imagine what the President and Mrs. Clinton were doing at that very moment. But it was too hot to think.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (95%); 

CITY: CASPER, WY, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING; JACKSON HOLE (WYO); UNITED STATES (95%); WYOMING, USA (95%); CASPER, WY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (87%); HORSES (76%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (65%); 

PERSON: KLINKENBORG, VERLYN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



529 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: Millions of Mothers Can't Choose Not to Work

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Yes, Motherhood Lowers Pay" (Op-Ed, Aug. 22), Danielle Crittenden misses the point in a way that has become frighteningly familiar in an era dominated by right-wing rhetoric. She seems to think all families are similar in composition to her own and that the choice mothers face is whether to stay home while their husbands support the household financially or to find one of "the best nannies in the world." For far too many women there is no such choice. 
 Single mothers cannot rely on the earning power of another. And the sad reality of today's economy is that for many families it is simply not an option for one wage earner to leave the work force. For many couples the reality that women earn less for similar work means difficult economic times can become an almost unwinnable battle.
Ms. Crittenden' article is an example of the growing disconnect between better-off professionals and struggling working families. No one is asking government to subsidize day care so that mommy can become a partner at the law firm.
What many Americans do ask of their government is to make the burden of juggling financial responsibilities and parenthood manageable in a changing economic environment.
 
DAVID MERTZ
East Rockaway, L.I., Aug. 22, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WAGES AND SALARIES; WOMEN; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE FAMILY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WOMEN (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); 

PERSON: MERTZ, DAVID; CRITTENDEN, DANIELLE DANIELLE CRITTENDEN (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



530 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Why Is a Seal Different From a Lamb?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "World's Last Baby Seal Hunt Is Jobs for Namibians" (Aug. 19): 
 If animal rights activists succeed in ending Namibia's harvest of seals it will be another example of Western environmentalists imposing their morality on a foreign nation and strangling an important source of jobs and income for a struggling economy. Aldert Brink, a seal harvester, has it right when he asks how seals differ from fish or cattle, and how their consumption and use, for whatever purpose, differ from other animal-based industries. To claim that the Namibian Government does not have the right to harvest a scientifically determined limit of young seals is like arguing that American ranchers have no right to slaughter lambs for our tables.
While in some regions seals may be endangered and should be protected, in Namibia more than one million seals compete for scarce food resources and breeding areas. Far more young seals are crushed by mature bulls or die of starvation in their first year than fall prey to the harvesters' clubs. Harvesting limits are re-evaluated annually based on careful studies of conditions and population levels.
Unlike most worldwide animal industries, the Namibian seal harvest results in no major alterations of the environment or food chain. Is this not more "environmental" than farming and ranching, which demand massive fencing, irrigation and alteration of the environment?
Our Western minds may find baby seals too cute to kill, and think seal-penis aphrodisiacs are a foolish and wasteful superstition. Yet how many of us indulge in juicy lamb chops without worrying about the "little lamb" or carry our keys on good-luck charms made of rabbits' feet?
The Namibian seal harvest provides essential jobs and brings valuable foreign currency to a young nation struggling to develop its economy and provide a decent standard of living. Having achieved our level of existence at least partly through far more exploitative use of natural and living resources, we are in no position to pass judgment on others.
 
GREGORY S. MILANO
San Francisco, Aug. 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: NAMIBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NAMIBIA; NAMIBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: SEALS (ANIMALS) AND SEALING; CRUELTY TO ANIMALS MARINE MAMMALS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STARVATION (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ANIMAL WELFARE (68%); MALNUTRITION (56%); 

PERSON: MILANO, GREGORY S SIR GEORGE YOUNG (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



531 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Skilled Foreign Workers Gain American Jobs
Computer companies fondly predict a future in which millions of Americans desert their offices for laptops on tropical beaches. And corporate America is already getting a lot of work done on foreign shores, but some of it is not being done by Americans. Instead, businesses are paying well-educated foreign nationals to do the same tasks for a fraction of the cost. 
 Often, the new tools of the information age subject many white-collar Americans to the same global wage pressures their blue-collar counterparts have struggled with. [Page A1.]
 
The Smudging of Windows 95
Celebrity in America is a cycle that includes elements of adulation and homage, followed by skepticism and mockery. So in light of the shouted buildup to last week's introduction of Microsoft's Windows 95 operating system, how long did you really think it would take before the nation's cartoonists took their shots? [D3.]
 
For millions of "temps," the hourly workers who populate American businesses, doing the work of secretaries, bookkeepers and word processors, Microsoft's new operating system means going back to class for a crash course, or losing the chance of getting extra work and higher pay. [D3.]
 
Power to the Microprocessor
According to the digital revolutionaries at an Aspen, Colo., conference on issues arising from the information revolution, the age of electronic communications will transform the world's political, social and economic foundations just as the agricultural and industrial revolutions did -- only faster. Technology, Peter H. Lewis. [D3]
 
The Electronic Billboard
A community of innovators has developed in the business of computer graphic design. Their work is spread across the World Wide Web as they contract themselves out to companies hungry for an Internet presence. Taking In the Sites, Thomas W. Holcomb. [D9.]
 
NBC in Cyberspace
A new NBC service is offering around-the-clock news, detailed background material about subjects like the Balkan war and the O. J. Simpson trial, national and local weather forecasts and access to selections from the NBC News archives -- all in cyberspace. [D7.]
 
Big Games, Bigger Players
It used to be that the video game division was the second banana at the big media companies. But with sales of $10 billion last year, the game business is getting better and better billing, as Disney, Viacom and other media and entertainment giants are developing more and more of their material in house. [D7.]
 
Big Tobacco Fights Back
Under continuing demands to curtail cigarette advertising, tobacco companies are training their sights on the news media. Philip Morris has already been successful; ABC opted to apologize for a recent report on the industry rather than fight a big lawsuit. [D5.]
 
A U.S. Meeting With China?
Despite differences that remain unresolved, Beijing wants to go ahead with preparations for a meeting this fall between President Clinton and President Jiang Zemin. Such a restrained but positive outcome could signal some stabilization in the difficult Chinese-American relationship. [A1.]
 
A Dispute in Timberland
A month after the Clinton Administration bowed to Congressional demands that it allow the sale of more timber from public land, the legal wrangling has begun over expanded logging in the old-growth forests of the Northwest. At stake are Federal sales of timber in Oregon and Washington, mostly from forests that provide nesting sites for the Pacific marbled murrelet, an elusive sea-going bird threatened with extinction. [A13.]
 
Undercover and Over-the-Counter
In the malls of America, espionage shops peddle "invisible" inks and books on "secret" codes next to stun guns and electronic eavesdropping devices. This could be the harmless stuff of James Bond fantasies, but the Government thinks many of the products are potential tools for drug smugglers, kidnappers and unethical businessmen. [A10.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (83%); VIA (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (50%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (83%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (82%); VIACOM INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (50%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (84%); TOBACCO MFG (83%); FOREIGN LABOR (79%); BEACHES (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (73%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); WEATHER (66%); MICROPROCESSORS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); LITIGATION (61%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



532 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: Philadelphia Shaken by Criminal Police Officers

BYLINE: By DON TERRY 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Aug. 23

 BODY:
The congregation at Refuge Evangelical Baptist Church was rocking here last Sunday to glory songs, trumpets and the word of the Lord. But no one had a reason to shout "Hallelujah" louder than Betty (Mizzy) Patterson, a stout, 54-year-old grandmother in a flowered sun dress.
Mrs. Patterson, a widow, who cleaned other people's floors and clothes to keep her family together and now delivers newspapers before dawn with her grandson, was framed by corrupt police officers and spent three years in prison in the early 1990's after being falsely convicted of selling crack cocaine. 
 Mrs. Patterson and her church always knew she was innocent, but only in the last couple of months has the rest of the city learned the truth.
And although Philadelphia has been rocked by one police scandal after another in recent years, the new charges reveal a group of officers so corrupt, so calloused to the rights and welfare of residents, that the details have shaken this city to its roots.
Mrs. Patterson is one of dozens, perhaps even hundreds of victims of a band of five renegade officers who for at least three years haunted her predominantly poor and black North Philadelphia neighborhood, beating, robbing, lying and planting phony evidence on the good and the bad, Federal and local prosecutors said.
"She went to jail for three years for something she was apparently completely innocent of," said Lynne Abraham, the Philadelphia District Attorney. "This whole thing has made me physically ill. This is the ultimate betrayal of the public trust, and it has some very destructive consequences. It justifies people's suspicions of the police."
Earlier this year, the officers pleaded guilty in Federal Court to being criminals in blue; nearly 50 drug cases that they were involved in, including Mrs. Patterson's, have been overturned by the courts and the District Attorney's office. Hundreds more could also be thrown out.
Scheduled for sentencing in October are Officer John Baird, 40, Sgt. Thomas BeGovanni, 44, Officer Steven Brown, 48, Officer James Ryan, 39, and former Officer Thomas Ryan, 38, who is on disability. Most of them have apparently been cooperating with investigators.
A sixth officer, Louis J. Maier 3d, 38, from the same district, was charged today in Federal District Court with conspiracy to violate civil rights. There are reports that even more officers will be charged, expanding the scandal and the city's potential liability.
Ken Rocks, a vice president of the local Fraternal Order of Police, said he anticipated more arrests any day, an expectation he called "very, very distressing."
"This is killing morale," Mr. Rocks said of the department, which has already endured several brutality and corruption scandals over the last two decades.
At least 1,400 drug-related cases are expected to come under review, and the scandal could cost this city millions of dollars in lawsuits -- dollars that Mayor Edward G. Rendell says "we desperately need for human needs and basic services."
Prosecutors and defense lawyers also say they expect several murder convictions to be reviewed or even thrown out as a result of the scandal.
Mrs. Patterson's lawyer, Jennifer St. Hill, said that three of the five officers who had already pleaded guilty used a warrant secured with lies to illegally search her client's home, and at least one of them planted drugs in a bedroom. None of the officers has officially admitted doing that, but during an interview with investigators one officer said his partner had planted drugs as they searched for evidence against Mrs. Patterson's three sons, who were suspects in a drug-related killing.
"When the police are indistinguishable from the bad guys," Ms. Abraham said, "then society has a serious problem."
So far, about a dozen people have been freed from prison or parole. Mrs. Patterson was on parole before her case was vacated last month, and most of the other overturned cases involved people on probation, many of whom had criminal records.
"Shaking down drug dealers is no excuse for breaking the law," Ms. Abraham said.
Bradley S. Bridge, a local public defender who first sought dismissal of the tainted cases and who is seeking the dismissal of others, sees more such cases on the horizon.
"It keeps hemorrhaging," said Mr. Bridge, who first asked the District Attorney to dismiss the cases after the officers were indicted last February on Federal charges, including conspiracy, obstruction of justice and "pocketing more than $100,000 in cash they robbed from suspected drug dealers through beatings, intimidations, illegal searches and denying suspects their constitutional rights."
The first batch of dismissals included 42 cases and nearly as many defendants. Mr. Bridge has written prosecutors asking that another 60 cases be dismissed and, he said the other day with a sigh, "The end is nowhere in sight."
Mr. Bridge said the scandal could change how juries perceive the police. In the past, Mr. Bridge said, many jurors took what a police officer said on the witness stand almost as the gospel truth.
"Too much credibility has always been given the police in court," Mr. Bridge said. "Maybe that will change a little bit now. No one who comes to court should be given a ticket to be believed."
The revelations of police corruption have already given encouragement to the supporters of Mumia Abu-Jamal, a black radio journalist condemned to die for killing a police officer here in 1981. Mr. Abu-Jamal is seeking a new trial partly on the ground that he had been framed by the police.
On the other side of the country, conjuring suspicions of police misconduct is a major part of the strategy being employed by O. J. Simpson's lawyers to convince a jury that he was framed in the slayings of his former wife and her friend. Judge Lance Ito is considering allowing Mr. Simpson's lawyers to give jurors hours of tape recorded conversations in which a former detective, Mark Fuhrman, boasted of beating suspects and other abuses.
The five indicted Philadelphia officers were assigned to the 39th District, but they roamed through other rough patches of North Philadelphia, a part of town plagued with unemployment, poverty and the deadly violence that often accompanies drug money.
They were aggressive officers and several of them were well known on streets where drugs are almost as available as newspapers. When the young men in the neighborhood saw the officers coming, they would run or disappear in doorways.
The other day, Rashine Brown, 20, and Cynthia Taylor, 24, who works for the Internal Revenue Service, were putting oil in their cars on their block in North Philadelphia. Both said they had known about the renegade police officers long before they were charged.
"I can't even remember all the bad stories I heard about those cops," Mr. Brown said. "They used to beat people down, take their money. A lot of people were scared of them."
Mrs. Taylor said the officers operated for so long outside of the law because they patrolled a poor neighborhood, ignored and abandoned by the city, a neighborhood not unlike parts of Chicago's South Side or Harlem, where a scandal in the New York police department is unfolding.
"You can't trust cops around here," Mrs. Taylor said. "They're in it for themselves, not the community. I guess they forgot why they took the job."
The human toll of the scandal will be difficult, if not impossible, to calculate. Unlike Mrs. Patterson, George Porchea, 27, was still in prison when the years of police lies became public. But on July 20, after being locked up for nearly three years, Mr. Porchea was able to watch his daughter graduate from pre-school a few hours after he walked out of a courtroom in City Hall a free man.
He has not seen his oldest daughter yet. She was placed in a foster home in North Carolina while he was in prison.
"I'm trying to get her back," he said. "I'm trying to get my whole life back."
Mrs. Patterson was released on parole in 1994, but long before that she had much to be thankful for. Her church and its interracial congregation stood by her from the day she was arrested in 1989.
And she remained loyal to her church. As soon as she could, Mrs. Patterson got a job in the prison laundry, where she made less than 50 cents a day. Still, each month she sent her $5 tithe, said the Rev. Wilbert S. Richardson, her pastor.
To pass the time, Mrs. Patterson, who made it to the 10th grade, buried herself in her Bible and became a mother figure for many of the younger inmates who called her "Miss P."
One of the women was Patricia Lytle, who was serving time on a drug charge that she admits she was guilty of. On Sunday, Mrs. Patterson brought Ms. Lytle to her church.
"The whole time," in prison, Ms. Lytle said, "you wouldn't believe how the women would look to her. She was grinning and smiling while the rest of us were crying. She was always hugging and praying. Girls would come to her for comfort."
Last Sunday, Pastor Richardson asked Mrs. Patterson to come forward and testify about her faith. She carried her Bible to the front of the church and read from the Acts of the Apostles, where Herod has thrown Peter into prison unjustly.
"That's me," Mrs. Patterson told the congregation, her voice heavy with the accent of her native South. "I, too, was like Peter in prison. When people see me, they are amazed at what can happen to a person."
When she closed her Bible and smiled, church suddenly surged with with song and the sound of trumpets.
Mrs. Patterson waved her hand in the air and in a clear, free voice, shouted, "Hallelujah."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Betty Patterson, left, spent three years in jail after Philadelphia police officers framed her in a drug case. She found support from members of her church and her lawyer, Jennifer St. Hill, right. (Bill Cramer for The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA (PA); UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT ; ETHICS PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); SCANDALS (89%); COCAINE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); RELIGION (78%); GRANDPARENTS (77%); MISCONDUCT (75%); SENTENCING (75%); GUILTY PLEAS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); CONSPIRACY (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); FAMILY (71%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); ETHICS (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON; BAIRD, JOHN; BEGOVANNI, THOMAS (SGT); BROWN, STEVEN (PHILA POLICE OFFICER); RYAN, JAMES (PHILA POLICE OFFICER); RYAN, THOMAS (PHILA POLICE OFFICER); MAIER, LOUIS J 3D (POLICE OFFICER); PATTERSON, BETTY THOMAS M RYAN (88%); JAMES T RYAN (83%); THOMAS L RYAN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



533 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1747 words

HEADLINE: Busier And Busier Signals

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Diane H. Tremblay knows how bad it can get.
When she bought the Covered Bridge Bed and Breakfast Reservation Service in the northwest Connecticut town of Norfolk nine years ago, Ms. Tremblay experienced a mysterious drop in the number of customer calls. She finally discovered the problem: The recording that was supposed to direct callers from the service's old telephone number was not being reached by the reservation service's many out-of-state callers. 
 If the experience of other states is any guide, Ms. Tremblay's business, and thousands of others in Connecticut, may face similar missed signals when a large portion of the state receives a new area code today.
"If my phone's not working, I'm out of business," Ms. Tremblay said.
Since January, nine other states have adopted new area codes in response to the telephone industry's need for more phone numbers, and there have been problems in nearly every instance. Businesses complain that they go to the trouble and expense of putting the new area code on nearly everything -- from their business cards and stationery to the sides of their trucks -- only to discover that customers cannot get through. Instead, callers receive either a busy signal or, worse, a message saying the number is invalid.
Because the new area codes are being introduced piecemeal around the country, the full impact of the coming changes is only beginning to be felt. But like a swarm of killer bees, the new prefixes are moving from state to state, wreaking havoc.
"This is bigger than going from leaded to unleaded gasoline," said Edward B. Dyl, an executive at the AT&T Corporation who is helping the company's customers adjust to the changes. "The impact is in the billions of dollars. It's incalculable. We have not found a facet of the telephone business that is not affected by this."
Call it information-age scarcity. Because of the surge in demand in recent years for new telephone lines, a consequence of all the fax machines, pagers, cellular telephones and computer modems being added, the country's potential telephone numbers are running out. To meet the growing demand, the telecommunications industry will be introducing 16 new area codes around the nation over the next 16 months -- the most new codes ever adopted in such a short period since area codes came into widespread use after World War II.
The newest one goes into use today in six of Connecticut's eight counties -- including the capital, Hartford -- when many homes and businesses that have long used the 203 prefix will begin a 13-month transition to area code 860. Until Oct. 4, 1996, calls will be connected whether the caller uses the new 860 code or the old 203. But after that date only the 860 code will work in those counties.
Because modern phone networks rely on digital call-switching equipment that consists of, in effect, specialized computers, whenever a new area code is introduced, thousands of telephone companies around the world have to reprogram their switches to recognize the new code. Businesses, too, must adjust the computerized switchboards known as private branch exchanges, or PBX's, that route calls from their offices to the telephone network. And while various area-code glitches have cropped up, the PBX problem appears to be the most common. Traditional area codes had either a "0" or "1" as the middle digit, but the new codes can have any number at their center. As a result, tens of thousands of office switchboards programmed to look only for the old-style numbers must be reprogrammed or, in some cases, replaced.
Mr. Dyl of AT&T estimated that 40 percent of the country's PBX's have yet to be updated. About a third of PBX's need only to be reprogrammed, he said, while the remaining two-thirds require new software or replacement.
In states where new codes have gone into use -- including Arizona, Colorado, Georgia, Texas and Washington -- lawsuits, bitter accusations and cries of desperation have ensued.
Bette Laswell, who runs a computer software business from her home in Tucson, Ariz., saw the number of calls to her toll-free "800" number plunge from nearly 100 a month to fewer than 25 after Tucson's area code changed from 602 to 520 in March. And she said her own investigation determined that many of the people who had trouble getting through were not calling from PBX phones. When she complained to her local phone company, U S West, she said company officials told her that the decline had nothing to do with Tucson's new code.
But Ms. Laswell said that after she had her "800" number calls routed back through the old 602 area code, business picked up again. But that was a short-term fix, possible only during the grace period in which Tucson customers can continue using the old code. When the grace period ends early next year, she will be forced to return to area code 520.
"Virtually all of my sales are phone sales," she said. "This has been a nightmare."
A spokesman for U S West said that his company had investigated Ms. Laswell's complaint and found no problem with the new area code. But he said her problem might have been caused by the provider of her "800" service, or by calls coming from areas where the caller's own local phone companies had failed to adjust their switches to the new Arizona area code.
In June, state regulators in Arizona agreed to extend the transition to the new area code by several months to give customers and U S West more time to adjust. Last week regulators in Colorado -- also a U S West state -- granted a similar 90-day extension.
After new codes were introduced in Alabama and Washington in January, businesses in each state filed lawsuits trying to block their introduction. Each attempt failed, but the plaintiffs are still seeking damages from the local telephone companies.
And by a quirk of technology and geography, Schaumburg, Ill., finds itself at odds with its phone company, the Ameritech Corporation. The boundary line for a new area code would run through Schaumburg, forcing some people there to use the new 847 code, while leaving their neighbors with a separate area code. The only way to give all of Schaumburg a single area code, Ameritech has said, would be if about 24,000 Schaumburg households were willing to change their entire phone numbers -- not only the area code but the seven other digits, too. Schaumburg has filed a lawsuit seeking to force Ameritech to devise a less disruptive plan.
Introducing new area codes was bound to be difficult under any conditions, but contributing to the confusion, some analysts say, is the fact that the entire telephone industry is going through momentous change. The days when the Bell monopoly system coordinated the nation's phone technology ended more than a decade ago, but things are about to become more decentralized. Deregulation is on the verge of freeing the seven regional Baby Bells to pursue new businesses, while allowing other companies -- including cable television operators and long-distance carriers -- to compete in the local phone market.
To prepare themselves for the competition, many of the regional Bells have cut costs and laid off workers. There just are not as many people to sweat the details as there used to be. But Jack Ott, U S West's numbering plan administrator, said he did not think any of the problems resulting from the new area codes were a result of the company's attempts to streamline its operations.
"We're spending a lot of resources on the area code splits," he said. "The problems that we're having are not because of anything in the U S West network. It's problems with other networks -- like, for instance, in foreign countries."
Some of the mistakes that have been made by the telephone companies cannot be blamed on others. Last month, the Bell Atlantic Corporation alerted 388,000 customers in northern Virginia that their area code would be changing to 540 from 703. There was only one problem: The mailing was sent by mistake to customers whose codes would not be changing. The cost of alerting the right customers and disabusing those who received the incorrect notices was about $150,000, the company said.
The telephone companies and industry analysts say the biggest problem is persuading businesses to upgrade their local switchboards to recognize the new codes. Even if business customers in an affected region update their PBX's, if callers from other parts of the country do not make the change as well, they will not be able to get through once the new area codes become mandatory.
Most large businesses have been willing to make the change, which can cost $6,500 for a software upgrade, or tens of thousands of dollars if the PBX needs replacing. But many small to medium-sized businesses have been reluctant to spend the money, figuring that they do not make many calls to Alabama, western Washington or some other regions that have introduced the new codes.
But such economizers will be in for a shock in March, when a new 888 area code goes into use as a toll-free prefix, in addition to the traditional 800 prefix. PBX's that have not been upgraded will not be able to reach any toll-free services that use the 888 code.
Last week, the Federal Communications Commission convened a meeting of state regulators, telephone company executives and PBX manufacturers to discuss what more might be done to raise awareness of the area-code changes and to ease the transition.
"When you think about it, what we just did was not that great a change," said Ron Conners, the director of the North American Numbering Plan, the organization that administers the national telephone numbering system together with the F.C.C., state regulators and the phone companies. When the current batch of numbers runs dry, he explained, it will be necessary to introduce four-digit area codes, which will require every American phone number in every data base on the planet to be changed.
That will not happen until 2025, based on current estimates. But Mr. Conners is not so sure the numbers will not run out sooner. New offerings, like the wireless personal communications services being developed, are bound to soak up millions of additional phone numbers. "And there is no guarantee," he said, "that no one will come up with a new service tomorrow that will eat up a lot of numbers."
Meanwhile, at the Covered Bridge Bed and Breakfast Reservation Service, Ms. Tremblay's operators are standing by.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE DIANE H TREMBLAY (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



534 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and China Plan Meeting Of Their Leaders in October

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Aug. 27

 BODY:
After two days of talks that left "fundamental differences" in Chinese-American relations unresolved, a senior State Department official said today that China nonetheless wanted to proceed with preparations for a summit meeting between President Clinton and President Jiang Zemin in October.
The positive tone from the official, Under Secretary of State Peter Tarnoff, suggested that both Washington and Beijing were determined to build on the momentum created last week with the release of the Chinese-American human rights activist Harry Wu and the subsequent White House decision that Hillary Rodham Clinton would attend the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing in September. 
 After a half-hour meeting with Foreign Minister Qian Qichen today and several hours of discussions with Mr. Qian's subordinates on Saturday, Mr. Tarnoff said at a news conference: "While on substance the differences were not bridged, I think we did have a full airing of views. And there was a commitment on both sides that there are other aspects to the relationship we are determined to proceed to work on together, notably the upcoming meetings of our foreign ministers and Presidents."
The importance of this restrained and generally positive outcome to the visit is that it may begin to stabilize the fragile Chinese-American relationship, which erupted in May when Mr. Clinton decided to allow Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui, to make a private visit to the United States in June.
A summit meeting is still anything but assured. Administration officials, however, have been saying for weeks that there is a tight "window" in which to try to prepare for a meeting between President Clinton and President Jiang during the 50th-anniversary celebrations for the United Nations. It is thus necessary to press an American diplomatic effort, the officials said, if only to stop the deterioration in relations and the escalating demonstrations of military power that China, and now Taiwan, are planning in the East and South China Seas.
The additional significance of the positive tone emerging from the talks this weekend is that it signals an easing in the explosion of anger among China's military leaders over American policy toward Taiwan.
It may also signal that Foreign Minister Qian, who has been the architect of China's recovery from the isolation that followed the 1989 Tiananmen massacre, has somewhat redeemed his influence in the management of foreign policy. It is a policy that has been undermined this summer in internal factional struggles both with the military leadership, and with the State Security Ministry, which supervised the apprehension and handling of Mr. Wu, the human rights activist.
In his remarks to reporters, Mr. Tarnoff placed great emphasis on a reiteration that "far from seeking to isolate China, we desire to engage the People's Republic in a wide-ranging and constructive relationship with us and with the international community."
But Mr. Tarnoff said he could report no immediate progress on restoring ambassadorial relations that were in effect downgraded in June or on ending the cycle of military exercises China has undertaken this summer to intimidate Taiwan.
"I observed that two great powers such as China and the United States should have ambassadorial representation in their respective capitals in order for them to maintain a constructive exchange of views," he said.
Since Ambassador J. Stapleton Roy returned in June, China has yet to agree to the nomination of James Sasser, a former Senator from Tennessee, and the Chinese Ambassador, Li Daoyu, has not returned since being called back to Beijing in the same month.
Mr. Tarnoff continued: "I don't claim we have a meeting of the minds on the Taiwan issue. We did not receive any demands. We did not receive any threats."
But he said it was "welcome" news that China had ended its second military exercise of the summer on Friday, and he admonished both sides that "military exercises on one side or the other are not conducive to the kind of atmosphere that we hope would prevail."
Although giving what appeared to be a bleak report on the lack of agreement on the status of Taiwan, human rights in China and weapons proliferation, Mr. Tarnoff said he was "encouraged" by the tone of the talks. Chinese officials, he said, "made clear how seriously they regarded the issue" of Taiwan, where the Nationalist Government once represented all of China at the United Nations, but with which Washington broke relations in 1979, when it established diplomatic ties with Beijing.
Mr. Tarnoff appeared to be unpersuasive in arguing that China should be willing to tolerate future visits by Taiwan leaders as long as they are "private, unofficial and personal in character."
In a dispatch issued by the official New China News Agency, Foreign Minister Qian was quoted as saying: "The U.S. permission of the visit by Lee Teng-hui had brought about serious consequences to relations between China and the United States, greatly hurt the feelings of the Chinese people and intensified the relations between the two sides of the Taiwan Strait."
"China hopes that such kind of event will never occur."
In earlier public statements, Chinese leaders have demanded that President Clinton take "concrete steps" to atone for the "mistake" he made in reversing longstanding United States policy on visits of Taiwan leaders. By allowing private but high-profile visits of Taiwan leaders, the United States is indulging in what Beijing sees as a strategy by Taiwan's President to pander to the island's pro-independence voters.
After President Richard M. Nixon opened relations with Beijing more than two decades ago, United States policy was to encourage China and Taiwan to negotiate their future under a "one China" policy. This diplomatic strategy deferred the issue with an expectation that political and economic development would eventually draw the two sides into some permanent accommodation.
Beijing considers Taiwan a province of China, but in recent years has sought to lure the Nationalist Government in Taipei to expand trade and investment ties with a goal of eventual reunification.
Mr. Tarnoff conceded that he was not able to say that he had "turned a corner" on any of the contentious issues that have incited a summer of tensions between Washington and Beijing.
Still, he said, "I certainly detected on the Chinese side an interest in engaging, in talking about our differences and in looking for ways for the dialogue to resume." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) FOURTH WORLD (57%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; TAIWAN; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ; FOREIGN SERVICE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); POLITICS (72%); WOMEN (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (63%); NATIONAL SECURITY (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; WU, HARRY; TYLER, PATRICK E; TARNOFF, PETER (UNDER SEC) ; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JIANG ZEMIN (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



535 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Officials Say Bosnian Serbs Face NATO Attack if Talks Stall

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 27

 BODY:
Administration officials said today that unless there is quick and significant progress on an American peace plan for the Balkans, the Bosnian Serbs could face a new round of NATO air strikes that might be extended to a six-month bombing campaign intended to "level the playing field" while the Bosnian Army receives weapons from abroad.
Appearing on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," Richard C. Holbrooke, the Administration's chief negotiator on the Balkans, said, "If this peace initiative does not get moving -- dramatically moving -- in the next week or two, the consequences will be very adverse to the Serbian goals." 
 Administration officials acknowledged that the threats are clearly intended to ratchet up pressure on the Bosnian Serbs before peace talks resume in Europe this week. The talks were delayed by the deaths of three American diplomats in a road accident outside Sarajevo eight days ago.
The threats of air strikes and the idea of getting the allies to support a multilateral lifting of the international arms embargo on the former Yugoslavia also appear intended to discourage Congress from overriding President Clinton's veto of a bill that would defy the embargo unilaterally. Such a vote would be an embarrassing repudiation of Mr. Clinton's stewardship of foreign policy.
State Department officials said in interviews today that the United States and its European allies have been holding off on large-scale air strikes in retaliation for recent Serbian shelling and sniper attacks in Sarajevo and Gorazde only because they wanted to give the peace talks a chance.
A senior White House official said today, "In the series of carrots and sticks in the new peace initiative, we've made it clear that if there is a failure to achieve peace, with the Bosnian Serbs being the only party holding out, we'd be required to move ahead with things like lifting the arms embargo and compensating the Bosnian Government with air strikes to offset any superiority the Bosnian Serbs had in the interim."
They said that a lack of progress in the talks could also prompt a decision in September to withdraw United Nations peacekeepers, a step that would send tens of thousands of American and NATO troops into the Balkans to assist the pullout. Administration officials said that if the United Nations withdraws, the United States would push for a multilateral lifting of the arms embargo, accompanied by 6 to 12 months of "compensatory" strikes against the Serbs.
These threats are similar to ones repeatedly made and dropped by the United States and its allies during the last two years. But Administration officials insist that a number of circumstances make it easier to follow through this time than before: There are fewer United Nations troops to be taken hostage in Muslim enclaves, and France and Britain are determined not to have their troops in Bosnia suffer through another winter of stalemate and sniper fire.
"The reality is, if the Bosnian Serbs don't want to negotiate, then the game will basically be just to wait for the trigger for air strikes," said a State Department expert on the Balkans. "And the trigger would be Sarajevo or Gorazde -- some of the things that have been going on right now."
The American peace plan, like an earlier version pressed by the five-nations referred to as the "contact group," calls for granting the Muslim-Croat federation 51 percent of the country's territory while the Bosnian Serbs receive 49 percent, down from the 70 percent they now hold, and insists that Bosnia be a single, nonpartitioned, internationally recognized state. The details of the American plan differ somewhat from the contact group's version, and some flexibility is built in.
There are parts of the plan that neither the Muslim-led Bosnian Government nor the Croats like, but American diplomats said today that the main obstacle is the Bosnian Serbs' continued refusal to begin negotiations on the basis of the 51-49 percent split.
On "Meet the Press," Mr. Holbrooke said, "I would be misleading you and your viewers this morning if I were to suggest that there's been any movement yet on that critical issue -- and that is, will the Bosnian Serbs accept the concept of the basic contact group plan."
Mr. Holbrooke left for Paris tonight where he is to pursue the Administration's peace initiative in meetings with French officials, with Bosnia's President, Alija Izetbegovic, and with representatives from the contact group members -- Russia, France, Britain, Germany and the United States -- as well as other nations pressing for peace in the Balkans.
Mr. Holbrooke says quick progress in the peace efforts is vital because the war could intensify quickly and because Britain and France have said they have to make up their minds in September about whether to withdraw their peacekeepers from Bosnia before winter.
During the last week, Mr. Holbrooke's strategy has been to deliberately heighten the pressure on the Bosnian Serbs because the Administration views their side as the principal aggressor and as the chief obstacle to peace.
On "Meet the Press," he repeatedly raised the prospect of increased NATO involvement to prod the Serbs to get serious about peace efforts.
"One way or another, NATO will be heavily involved, and the Serbs don't want that," Mr. Holbrooke said. "NATO will either assist the U.N. withdrawal, or there will be more active NATO air over the skies. These are not things the Serbs should want. So, we hope that they will recognize that the coming week or two is potentially decisive."
Afterward, a senior State Department official said the presence of tens of thousands of NATO troops in Bosnia would be unpleasant for the Bosnian Serbs and for Serbia because there are likely to be confrontations between the Serbs and the NATO forces.
The peace team, led by Mr. Holbrooke, is scheduled to leave Paris Tuesday night for Belgrade for meetings on Wednesday and Thursday with President Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia.
"Time is running out," said a senior State Department official. "It's time to find out once and for all, are Serbia and the Bosnian Serbs seeking to reach an agreement or are they seeking to string us along forever?"
Mr. Holbrooke spelled out several others parts of the peace plan today: all ethnic groups must receive equal treatment in all states and the territorial integrity of Croatia must be respected, meaning that the disputed region of Eastern Slavonia would be returned to the Croats. He also said there must be an economic reconstruction program for the region.
Last week, when Bosnia's Foreign Minister, Muhamed Sacirbey, visited Washington, he not only made pleas for relief from Bosnia's $2 billion in foreign debt, but also sought aid for rebuilding.
"Everyone recognizes there will have to be a pot of gold at the end of the rainbow for Bosnia and maybe the other states, too," said a European diplomat.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); CROATIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; CROATIA; UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); CROATIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE PEACE PROCESS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARMS EMBARGOES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ARMIES (77%); VETO (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (53%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (70%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



536 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: Old-Time Boss Rules Russia's Showcase Port

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER 

DATELINE: VLADIVOSTOK, Russia, Aug. 21

 BODY:
Spread regally across the rolling hills above Golden Horn Bay, Vladivostok has in just a few years become the garish showcase for all that ails modern Russia, and most of what could save it.
No other city holds more promise for the future or greater potential for prosperity. Its mighty port, sprawling forests and vast mineral wealth have made trading partners from Seoul to Seattle drool. There are yachts in the harbor and $60,000 Range Rovers on the pitted streets. 
 But in the last year Vladivostok has also become the country's Cape Fear: a city caught in a dark web of graft, run with an iron fist by a man who openly questions the value of democracy.
When this closed military port opened up for the first time three years ago, many people saw in Vladivostok and the surrounding Primorsky region a glorious Pacific gateway to the new Russia. Foreign businesses by the score rushed to stake claims in the capital of the Wild East, 6,000 miles from Moscow.
But these days, with profits eaten by taxes and bribes, car bombs a common occurrence -- there have been three this month, including one in front of the American Consulate's business office -- and many senior members of the regional administration under investigation for corruption, reality comes in more somber hues.
"This is a mafia town, a town of thugs," said Igor L. Alekseyev, the regional representative of a Japanese import consortium called the Vladivostok Corporation. "And if businesses want to come here it is usually in spite of the government, not because of it. Think about it. What does it mean that this territory, the great hope of Russia, is led by a man who opposes a free market and free speech?"
For one thing it means companies are starting to have some costly second thoughts about the place, despite gold reserves that rival those of any single country and a potential fish catch among the richest in the world.
Hyundai, the South Korean giant, spent lavishly last year to begin construction of a $50 million business center here. But a few months ago, battered by 18 types of taxes that it said would cost more than any possible profit and shocked by demands for huge bribes, the company decided to cut its losses and pull out of the deal.
American companies -- including Weyerhaeuser, which is eager to get a piece of the Russian Far East's 300 billion cubic feet of timber reserves -- are prepared to invest heavily despite the problems. But so far, few have been able to make their way through the red tape.
The regional Governor, Yevgeny Nazdratenko, says nothing is as important to him as attracting international business. But unlike his neighbors in the nearby region of Khabarovsk, he offers no incentives.
Instead, he calls market experiments "foolish" and privatization the theft of the nation's assets. He refers to former Prime Minister Yegor T. Gaidar, the country's best known advocate of open markets, as "a blind Bolshevik."
Governor Nazdratenko said in an interview that democrats, whom he refers to as "opposition groups," should be able to have "clubs," but not rallies. Newspapers that have been critical of his administration suddenly find their printing costs rising far beyond their means.
"The word democracy has come to mean anything is permitted," said Mr. Nazdratenko, who by all accounts makes every political decision of any significance in the region. "They say I am a dictator because I am opposed to that. Call me what you want. I'm used to it."
Regional governors have almost unlimited authority in Russia today, and Mr. Nazdratenko has found an extremely loyal following among many of his constituents by vigorously reminding Moscow that if it wants to take, it had better start giving. But as the country struggles to define the scope of central power and the limits to regional freedoms, Mr. Nazdratenko's brazen challenge to the rule of the Kremlin has sent troubling echoes across the continent.
Deeply popular with many of the unemployed and disaffected voters here, he is not a subtle man. Last year, President Boris N. Yeltsin was forced to call off an election for governor after Mr. Nazdratenko had his opponents disqualified by tripling the number of signatures that candidates needed to register. Then all electric power to the region conveniently failed in the final four days of the registration drive during the crucial television advertising hours from 7 to 11 P.M.
"He was blatant," said a Western businessman who has been here for two years and hopes to stay. "He always is. He rules with the big stick. The common folks are conservative here, and they love his act. He blames Moscow for everything, and the people always believe him. Foreigners have two choices. You either buy in or get out."
Buying in is increasingly costly. Local taxes run about 45 percent of income for foreign investors, and the Kremlin's tax bite is almost as steep. And that does not count the payoffs required of everyone.
Last month, one of Mr. Nazdratenko's closest associates, the region's tax chief, was arrested and accused of fabricating corruption charges against the former Mayor, Viktor Cherepkov. Mr. Cherepkov, the city's only democratically elected official, was carried out of his office by the police last year after the Governor accused him of corruption. All charges against him have been dropped, but he has not been reinstated.
"At this moment, the word democracy in Vladivostok has become a dirty word," said Mr. Cherepkov, who is living in Moscow and suing to get his job back. "It's a purely criminal, fascist and nomenklatura regime, which didn't exist even under Communism."
Such talk -- and there has been a lot of it -- has not shaken the Governor's position here. He has remained the law for a few simple reasons. He has the common touch and can spend hours commiserating with a factory worker thrown out of his job or schoolteachers unable to find the money to buy textbooks.
Nobody seriously challenges him in the region, because there is no opposition. He has made sure of that. Everyone in power is an ally; everyone who succeeds in business has a line to his office.
More than that, though, Mr. Nazdratenko is a fully committed, openly devoted supporter of Mr. Yeltsin, and these days that is a rarity. Deeply unpopular, Mr. Yeltsin simply cannot afford to dump a stalwart in one of Russia's most important regions only a few months before parliamentary elections in December.
"He has managed to convince people in this area that without him they would even be worse off than they are," said Tatyana G. Romanenko, editor of Arsenyevskiye Vesti, the only openly democratic newspaper in the area.
Her weekly paper has had to change printing houses seven times in the last year, as regional officials have raised prices and put other roadblocks in front of her. She now uses a small press in Khabarovsk, 300 miles away.
"People here are conservative and scared," she said. "He plays on that well. He tells them it's him and them against Moscow. Everyone always loves to hear that."
It also, to a large degree, happens to be the truth. As a closed city until 1992, Vladivostok was a company town with 900,000 residents.
The company was the defense industry. Almost every factory in this region, the home of the Pacific fleet, was turning out warplanes, submarines or something to support it. That effort is languishing now, and Moscow has little help to offer. Navy frigates sit rotting in the harbor, and one of the finest natural ports in the world remains profoundly underdeveloped.
Subsidies, once steady and always necessary in this region of exceptionally high prices, have been cut almost completely. Not surprisingly, real unemployment -- including the thousands who have jobs but get only a minimal salary and do no work -- runs at nearly 30 percent. Jobs in mining, timber and chemical industries are all disappearing, replaced by nothing.
Forced to rely on the marketplace to earn its keep, Vladivostok still has not been given the freedom to sell most of its remarkable trove of resources freely. Moscow still demands most of the raw materials that make this region one of the richest in Russia, or in any country. The central Government simply refuses to pay a fair market value for them.
Meanwhile, the loss of housing subsidies, school support and other traditional benefits has brutally wounded this region.
"The Governor says, 'Give us the ability to operate independently and we will succeed,' " said Anatoly Pavordenko, who runs a small commercial fishing fleet here but must often sell his catch to the Government at below-market prices. "I think he is absolutely right.
"We are being told by Moscow to grow up and do it ourselves. Then they force us to go begging for the right to profit from our own work. If it wasn't for our Governor, we would probably starve."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The regional Governor in Vladivostok, Yevgeny Nazdratenko, whose office overlooks the harbor, said his biggest goal was attracting international business. He also said he did not care that some call him a dictator. Bribery and high taxes in Vladivostok may have discouraged Hyundai, but Korean goods are sold from trucks by small-business people there. (Photographs by Otto Pohl for The New York Times)(pg. A2); Vladivostok, rich in natural blessings, is still home to vendors' kiosks instead of more substantial enterprises. (Otto Pohl for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 
Map of Russia showing location of Vladivostok. (pg. A2)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: FAR EAST MOTORS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; VLADIVOSTOK (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: PORTS; BRIBERY; TAXATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; PRIVATIZATION; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES BRIBERY (90%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); CORRUPTION (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); GOVERNORS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); 

PERSON: SPECTER, MICHAEL; NAZDRATENKO, YEVGENY (GOV) YEVGENY NAZDRATENKO (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



537 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: March on Chicago Points to Jail as Symbol of Failed Urban Policy

BYLINE: By DON TERRY 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 27

 BODY:
A sprawling warehouse of the criminal and the dispossessed on the city's West Side, the Cook County Jail has been getting bigger and bigger for decades.
Designed for 8,200 inmates, it now holds 9,000, more than 1,000 of whom have to sleep on mattresses spread across the floor. 
 The jail's newest addition, Division XI, is scheduled to open this fall, and by the time the last contractor is paid it will cost about $100 million.
"There is not a black college in America with as much money in it as that new jail," the Rev. Jesse Jackson said on Saturday as he and more than 2,500 people marched for six miles past vacant lots and weary row houses to the sleek white building.
There, with prayers and fiery speeches, they demanded a "national urban policy" that emphasizes jobs and education over incarceration and revenge.
"We intend, to make museums of these jails," Mr. Jackson said through a public address system. "Right now, they are just ovens, burning up our children."
To Mr. Jackson and others, Division XI, is a shiny new symbol of what the former Presidential candidate calls the "jail-industrial complex," the multibillion-dollar a year business of building and maintaining prisons and locking people up, especially, he says, a disproportionately high percentage of blacks.
There are more than one million people under lock and key across the country and almost everywhere he goes, Mr. Jackson said, he sees new jails going up and plants, schools and housing for the poor going down.
"If this were Italy, we would call this Fascism," Mr. Jackson said, addressing the marchers as they rallied in a park across the street from the new jail. "Here we call it conservatism: a plan to lock up our youth and not build them up."
John Stroger, the president of the Cook County Board of Commissioners, which is responsible for building lockups and hospitals, said Division XI was built to relieve the jail's severe overcrowding because of a longstanding Federal court order.
He said Division XI is a state of the art "humane" facility that "helps us comply with the court order and at the same time respond to the high incidence of crime that is causing the overcrowding in the first place."
This city is just one of many across the nation facing a rising number of people in the criminal justice system. The Federal Government announced today that a record 5.1 million Americans were either behind bars or on probation or parole at the end of last year. The numbers, released by the Justice Department's Bureau of Justice Statistics, found that the number under some kind of correctional supervision amounted to almost 2.7 percent of the nation's adult population.
In Chicago, Mr. Stroger said he was trying to develop programs that would guide young people away from crime but in the meantime, he said, society cannot ignore the mayhem in the streets.
"We have to do more up front," he said, "so our young people won't end up in the criminal justice system."
Some of the marchers on Saturday agreed, at least partly.
"We need jails to get the gang-bangers off the street," said Falanda Mabrey, 25, a cashier at a grocery store. "But it's better to get them in somewhere where thay can learn something."
Indeed, the marchers represented a cross section of generations and backgrounds, from a retired police commander to a mother whose 17-year-old son is in Cook County Jail for murder.
Fraternity brothers and gang members also marched and so did teachers and short-order cooks, Christians in T-shirts and Muslims in bow ties, teen-agers and gray-haired men and women who marched with Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., at least in their hearts, through Mississippi and Chicago and anywhere else Jim Crow said if you are black get back.
On Saturday, Elizabeth Harrison, 75, a retired hotel linen room supervisor from Woodville, Miss., watched the marchers stream past as she sat on a relative's stoop.
"This is the first time I've seen this many young people marching together since Martin Luther King," she said.
Dr. King's name and spirit were repeatedly evoked by the marchers on Saturday, and although many of the people marching through Chicago this weekend had not even been born when he stirred a nation with his visions of brotherhood and racial fairness, they sounded sorrows and fears and commitments that seem to echo from across the years.
"The system is prejudiced against African-American males," said Joseph Wesley, 23, of the Omega Psi Phi fraternity. "I don't want to see a system that is designed to incarcerate African-American males."
The march began in front of a church on the South Side, the skyscrapers of downtown looming a few miles away in the haze. But many children in Chicago's inner city, Mr. Jackson said, will see the inside of Cook County Jail before they make it to the public observation deck of one of the city's tall buildings.
"America has adjusted too well to this predicament of unfairness," said Mr. Jackson, who wore Air Jordan basketball shoes for the long march. "America has got to wise up."
Waving his hand toward the gathering crowd behind him, Mr. Jackson added, "There's going to be a lot more of this."
Next summer, the Democratic National Convention will be held in Chicago.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); COOK COUNTY (ILL); UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BLACKS PRISONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); COUNTIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PROBATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); PAROLE (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CHILDREN (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RIOTS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); STATISTICS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); CONSERVATISM (62%); 

PERSON: JACKSON, JESSE L (REV); TERRY, DON JESSE JACKSON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



538 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Technology

BYLINE: By Peter H. Lewis 

 BODY:
THE revolution will be televised.
And if some of the deepest thinkers in cyberspace are to be believed, the revolution will also be E-mailed, faxed, uploaded to a World Wide Web site, catalogued in computer data bases, passed from cell to cell, routed on phone lines, encoded on a CD-ROM disk and tattooed on billions of digital identification cards. 
 More than two dozen experts in information technology and public policy were brought together last week in Aspen, Colo., for a two-day exploration of issues arising from the so-called information revolution.
According to many of the digital revolutionaries, the information age will transform the political, social and economic foundations of the planet just as surely as the agricultural and industrial revolutions did, only much faster.
"Cyberspace and the American Dream 2" (the first conference was held last year in Atlanta) was sponsored by the Progress and Freedom Foundation of Washington, a conservative institute that has a tight working relationship with the House Speaker, Newt Gingrich.
The conference provided some people with their first exposure to Newtonion economics -- which appears to be the information-age equivalent of Ronald Reagan's trickle-down economics. It is called "friction-free capitalism."
"We'll see a revolution in the infrastructure of the marketplace," said Peter W. Huber, a telecommunications lawyer who was one of the two dozen panelists.
As explained by Mr. Huber and an array of economists and technologists at the conference, computer networks will act as grease for all markets, enabling producers and consumers to communicate directly.
By eliminating the middleman sector of the economy, the Internet will enable global markets to be more efficient than ever before. Once that happens, many of the functions now performed by government, from air traffic control to the monetary system itself, can be handed back to the private sector.
The result: "We should see markets accelerating and improving beyond recognition," Mr. Huber predicted -- but only if the Government steps out of the way and allows the process to follow its natural course.
The meeting was important not just because Mr. Gingrich is in a position to influence public policy. It served as a sort of constitutional convention for cyberspace, where issues of liberty, property, law and the pursuit of happiness in an increasingly wired world were debated.
The analogy holds if one thinks of cyberspace as an electronic frontier similar to the American frontier of the late 18th century: rough, mostly lawless, but rich with possibility and ultimately united by a common set of values.
Much as the newly formed United States rejected monarchy and embraced democracy, the founding fathers of cyberspace (who, like their forbears, were almost exclusively white, male, middle-aged and privileged) came together in Aspen to denounce unnecessary regulation and to endorse, in effect, libertarianism as their core political system.
It would be stretching things to suggest that the Aspen meeting was the cyberspace equivalent of the Boston Tea Party. But there were firebrands who advocated tossing the Federal Communications Commission overboard, and others who thought that Government attempts to regulate the Internet should not be made by senators who do not have electronic mail addresses.
One Republican Congressman, Representative Vernon J. Ehlers of Michigan, said he was surprised at the depth of the anti-Government sentiments he heard over the two days.
Some 150 journalists and other others came to Aspen to watch the proceedings from the periphery of the room, filling the air with the tapping noises of laptop computer keyboards, and the hisses and beeps of modems connecting to the Internet. Eighty-five new phone lines were brought into the room to satisfy the group's voracious hunger for bandwidth.
"What we're trying to do here is not contribute another terabyte of cyberbabble," said the moderator, Michael Vlahos, a senior researcher at the Progress and Freedom Foundation. "Our goal is to try to discern some truths about the future. At the end, we should all be able to walk away with some sense of structure, some way to sort out this cyberbabble."
Despite their best efforts, a few gigabytes of cyberbabble managed to leak into the atmosphere. There was talk of information gardening, electronic ecology, and (to borrow a phrase from the information age cartoon philosopher Dilbert) of lots of paradigm shifting without using the clutch.
But when the discussion shifted from philosophy to the practical effects of the information revolution on economics, politics and culture, the import of the conference became clear. The message was that universal electronic communications enable consumers to bypass the middle sectors of the economy, and that highly efficient "microproducers" will inherit the earth from today's lumbering industrial age dinosaurs.
Michael Rothschild, president of the Bionomics Institute in San Francisco, noted the economist Schumpeter's concept of "creative destruction," which in greatly simplified form holds that as old businesses are destroyed, new ones emerge to replace them. But in cyberspace, "I'm not certain that the creative part and the destructive part go at the same rate," Mr. Rothschild said. In other words, the rise of electronic commerce is not going to be painless.
"What we are headed for now is a world in which a very small percentage of workers work in manufacturing, some proportion of the population works in knowledge work, and the rest are in service," said Jeffrey A. Eisenach, an economist who founded the Progress and Freedom Foundation with George A. Keyworth, Ronald Reagan's former science adviser.
Nathan Myhrvold, chief technologist at the Microsoft Corporation, noted that one can now order custom-fit blue jeans directly from the manufacturer. Such "friction-free capitalism is going to create new business models and dramatically restructure some businesses," Mr. Myhrvold said, just as the distribution efficiencies of Wal-Mart are having a profound impact on small stores in scores of communities.
The agricultural revolution tied workers to the land. The industrial revolution brought them to the cities. The information revolution, it is said, will send them back to the land.
"In the short run, we're talking about communities on line," Mr. Myhrvold said. "The real long-term effect of all this is to restructure our physical communities."
As if to underscore the point, people driving away from the Aspen conference could see giant spools of fiber optic cable along the mountain roads.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter W. Huber, a lawyer and believer in market applications. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PROGRESS AND FREEDOM FOUNDATION

ORGANIZATION: PROGRESS AND FREEDOM FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: ASPEN (COLO); UNITED STATES (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); TRENDS (76%); DIGITAL SIGNATURES (76%); POLITICS (74%); LAWYERS (63%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H; HUBER, PETER W; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



539 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 140 words

HEADLINE: 2 Domestic Airlines Reduce Many Fares

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Northwest Airlines and Continental Airlines began fare sales yesterday, offering savings up to 50 percent off nondiscounted economy fares through mid-December if tickets are purchased this week.
Northwest said it would cut prices in half in most of its major cities. Continental reduced fares an average of 40 percent but said it would meet Northwest's prices in cities where they compete. 
 For Northwest, tickets must be purchased by Friday and be used at least 14 days later. Continental's sale lasts through Friday and tickets can be used seven days after purchase.
Northwest said a round trip between Los Angeles and New York would cost $398, and one between Orlando, Fla., and San Francisco, $358. Continental said a round trip between Austin, Tex., and Newark would cost $278. One between Houston and Denver would be $298.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (91%); DAL (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWEST AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) AIRLINES (93%); TICKET SALES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



540 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1576 words

HEADLINE: SKILLED WORKERS WATCH THEIR JOBS MIGRATE OVERSEAS

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 27

 BODY:
Texas Instruments is designing some of its more sophisticated computer chips in India. Motorola Inc. recently set up computer-programming and equipment-design centers in China, India, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Australia, and it is looking for a site in South America.
And while big American banks already process some account statements overseas, large accounting firms and insurance companies are looking at ways to prepare American tax returns and handle American insurance claims in East Asia. 
 The day may yet arrive when millions of Americans will desert their offices for laptops in exotic lands. But corporate America has already made half of that vision a reality, many economists say. It is getting a lot of work done on foreign shores -- but not by Americans. Instead, corporations are paying educated locals to do the same chores for a fraction of the cost.
The new tools of the information age were supposed to help the United States regain an edge in international competition. And while that has happened in many advanced-technology industries, the combination of powerful personal computers and high-capacity undersea telephone cables is also subjecting millions of white-collar Americans to the same global wage pressures that their blue-collar counterparts have long faced. As with steel and garment workers, the white-collar workers' positions and salaries increasingly depend on whether they can justify their higher pay with higher productivity.
The transfer of semi-skilled jobs overseas is hardly new. American companies have long assembled computer circuit boards in Malaysia, for example, and Western financial-services concerns have done processing work in Singapore.
But consulting firms say the shift is taking place at an accelerating rate and involves ever-higher-paying jobs. Constant improvements in computers and communications, particularly modems, have made it easier and cheaper to move large quantities of computer data, even for complex engineering designs. And foreign workers are designing more advanced products, like chips for complex graphic and multimedia applications.
"There's a really strong parallel to the 1960's and 1970's, when U.S. manufacturers sent everything offshore," said Thomas G. Watrous, the managing partner of the Andersen Consulting office in Manila. "The difference is it's being done electronically."
Such moves can mean real pain for some Americans. When Sea-Land Services Inc. asked Jessie B. Lindsay, a longtime computer programmer for the company, to sign form letters to Congress last winter supporting legislation to protect American shipping jobs from foreign competition, she loyally agreed.
But a week later, Sea-Land, a unit of the CSX Corporation, announced that it was shutting down her division in Elizabeth, N.J., laying off most of the 325 employees and subcontracting the work to programmers in India and the Philippines. Mrs. Lindsay was offered a job at least temporarily in Charlotte, N.C., to make sure the transition went smoothly, but quit because she had a baby and was reluctant to move.
"I felt betrayed," Mrs. Lindsay said. Her family faced that situation twice last winter. Her husband, William F. Lindsay, also left his programming job at the American International Group when it, a large insurance company, brought programmers from India to his office and began training them to replace the American workers.
Many fear that the growing tendency of corporations to farm out tasks to developing countries is widening the gap even further between the rich and everybody else in American society by eliminating some categories of high-skill, high-wage jobs that make up the heart of the middle class. But the temptation to use cheap foreign labor is too great for companies that are desperate to stay competitive in an increasingly global marketplace.
India is fertile ground for these companies because it inherited a strong English-language school system from the days of British rule, and has emphasized mathematical education since then. Yet computer scientists trained at Indian universities come relatively cheap. Experienced programmers command salaries of $1,200 to $1,500 a month, compared with $4,000 to $6,000, or even $10,000 for stars, in the United States. The result has been explosive growth in the number of Indians working on computer programs, mainly for the American market, to nearly 75,000 today from several thousand in the early 1980's.
New jobs overseas do not necessarily mean the elimination of jobs in the United States, of course. Indeed, while Sea-Land laid off many of its programmers, Motorola and Texas Instruments are expanding in the United States as well as abroad and attribute their overseas moves in part to a scarcity of good engineers in the United States.
"Software applications are growing so quickly that we're nowhere near a finite number of jobs to be parceled out around the globe," Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich said in an interview.
Some of the best-paid computer jobs in the United States require writing original programs for a customer's precise needs, and these jobs tend to be staying, experts said.
But rapidly evolving computer technologies are turning skilled tasks into routine work that can easily be shipped overseas. Mainframe computing jobs like Mrs. Lindsay's are particularly vulnerable because many companies are changing over to networks of desktop computers, and many Asian programmers specialize in adapting software to run on different computers.
All of this keeps the pressure on the United States to maintain its technological edge over the rest of the world.
Mr. Reich contends that many high-technology jobs will inevitably remain in the United States because electronic mail and facsimile machines are no substitute for working side by side with customers and colleagues. "It's the rubbing of shoulders, the cup of coffee over a lunch counter, where the spark of innovation occurs," he said.
Still, for many tasks, companies like Sea-Land say they must spread their work to lower-cost countries to stay competitive. "Any service like this we would shop on a worldwide basis," said M. Clint Eisenhauer, a spokesman for Sea-Land.
The exodus of white-collar jobs to developing countries troubles some economists. Even those who dismissed the warnings of politicians like Ross Perot and Patrick J. Buchanan that dismantling North American trade barriers would lead to a flight of blue-collar jobs to Mexico say the danger is all too real for skilled labor.
These economists argue that companies will often want to keep their factories in the United States to be close to good roads and railways that can supply their raw materials and deliver their goods to market. But, they add, the growing part of the economy based on ideas and information does not always need such physical proximity.
Prof. Jagdish Bhagwati of Columbia University, a critic of the notion that freer trade jeopardizes unskilled labor, for example, takes a different stance when it comes to skilled workers, particularly in the computer industry. "You're definitely seeing an enormous integration of the markets, and therefore a drag on the real wages here of the semi-skilled, of the computer programmers, of the skilled," he said.
Texas Instruments, for example, does not have to worry about infrastructure for its computer-chip-designing operation in Bangalore, India. All it needs is a private satellite link. The system works so well that the company has announced plans to expand the Bangalore office by 40 percent, to 350 workers.
Rick Younts, the executive vice president for international operations at Motorola, said it was not just lower wages that made Asian sites so attractive. Engineers in the United States can work on a project during the day, then send it electronically for more work in Asia while they sleep. As a result, projects can be completed in up to 40 percent less time, said S Remadorai, the deputy chief operating officer of Tata Consulting Services in Bombay.
Until recently, many such companies were reluctant to hire foreigners. "The arrogance that we used to have, that nobody could be as good as we were, except maybe a European, is all going away now," said Edith Holloman, the Washington representative of the American Engineering Association, a trade group based in Fort Worth.
To be sure, skilled American workers maintain many advantages over their foreign counterparts and also benefit from the upgrading abroad through increased demand for their own output.
For now, though, the increased foreign competition has set off a political backlash in the United States. The Software Professionals' Political Action Committee, a lobbying group in Austin, Tex., wants to limit immigration visas for computer programmers. Sea-Land, American International and other companies have brought foreign workers into the United States temporarily under such visas for training, before sending them back to do their jobs in their home countries.
But the overall direction of American immigration policy in recent years has been to encourage skilled workers to come to the United States and discourage unskilled workers.
And even if policy makers wanted to, it might well be impossible to build walls around the country. Clearly, Professor Bhagwati said, American companies will go wherever they can find the best deals. "This is relentless," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Investing Abroad" shows the total value of American stakes of 10 percent or more in businesses abroad. (Source: U.S. Department of Commerce)(pg. D6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (91%); CSX (NYSE) (82%); ACN (NYSE) (82%); TXN (NASDAQ) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335313 SWITCHGEAR & SWITCHBOARD APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3613 SWITCHGEAR & SWITCHBOARD APPARATUS (91%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (91%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (82%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (82%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (82%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (80%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (80%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (59%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (59%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); TAIWAN (92%); CHINA (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (78%); ASIA (78%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS HONG KONG LTD (91%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS AUSTRALIA LTD (91%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (91%); CSX CORP (82%); ACCENTURE PLC (82%); SEA-LAND SERVICE INC (80%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); INDIA (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); TAIWAN (92%); CHINA (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (78%); ASIA (78%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); BLUE COLLAR WORKERS; WHITE COLLAR WORKERS; FOREIGN LABOR; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INSURANCE (71%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); GARMENT WORKERS (71%); APPAREL MFG (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); LEGISLATION (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH WILLIAM F LINDSAY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



541 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: In Alaska, Nature Under Siege

 BODY:
Every state in the union will suffer in one way or another from the Republicans' relentless effort to undermine 25 years of legislation designed to protect the environment. But Alaska faces a double insult. If bills now moving through Congress receive final approval, the pristine Arctic National Wildlife Refuge would be opened to oil drilling and the Tongass National Forest -- the country's largest -- would be exposed to ruinous logging.
All this is courtesy of Alaska's Congressional delegation, which consists of three Republicans. They are Representative Don Young, Senator Ted Stevens and Senator Frank Murkowski, who would also extend his fervor for logging to the old-growth forests of the Pacific Northwest. Mr. Murkowski and Mr. Young are men with legendarily retrograde views on the environment. By a stroke of ill fortune known as the 1994 mid-term elections, they now preside over the two key natural resources committees in the Senate and House. 
 They argue that opening up the refuge and the forest will create jobs and revenue for the state. If oil is found in the refuge, there will indeed be new jobs and an infusion of cash to every Alaskan citizen. For these reasons, Alaskans as a whole would like to see drilling proceed. They are far less enthusiastic about increasing the timber harvest in Tongass.
Conservationists oppose exploitation of both the refuge and the forest. We agree. The short-term benefits of drilling and logging are not worth the long-term degradation of the environment.
The Tongass National Forest is a vast expanse of islands and lush valleys covering most of the Alaska Panhandle. It is home to grizzly bears, bald eagles and countless salmon. It also includes magnificent stands of old-growth trees coveted by timber companies. After years of rapacious logging in the forest, Congress passed a bill in 1990 that set aside one million acres as protected wilderness, imposed strict land-management rules in other parts of the forest and sharply reduced Federal subsidies to the timber companies.
Mr. Murkowski now seeks to overturn that act with legislation requiring the Forest Service to increase the yearly "harvest" to provide enough timber to guarantee a minimum of 2,400 jobs. In case Mr. Murkowski gets nowhere with his proposal, Senator Stevens has attached a rider to the Interior Department's appropriation bill that would accomplish the same result, mandating a far higher annual cut than presently allowed.
These are shortsighted proposals, a point well made by Alaska's Democratic Governor, Tony Knowles. He has told Mr. Murkowski that by exalting timber-related jobs over other economic activities in the forest -- like fishing and tourism -- he will not only degrade Tongass but undermine the future economic health of southeast Alaska.
Regrettably, for political reasons, Mr. Knowles does not display the same zeal on the question of opening the wildlife refuge to oil drilling. At risk is the refuge's coastal plain -- a narrow, 1.6 million-acre wilderness that flanks the Beaufort Sea. It is home to 180,000 caribou, polar bears, wolves, dozens of rare Arctic species and possibly a large undiscovered oilfield.
Since 1980 -- despite efforts by Presidents Reagan and Bush to open up the area -- Congress has kept the coastal plain off limits to drilling. But a new breed is now in charge on Capitol Hill. Non-binding budget resolutions passed by both houses would open up the refuge in order to help balance the budget over the next seven years. Meanwhile, Mr. Young has proposed a freestanding bill that would achieve the same objective.
The revenue argument is weak. Even if there is oil under the plain, Government royalties would not surface for years. Under the most optimistic scenario, there is a 50 percent chance that the coastal plain will produce 3.5 billion barrels of oil. This would be a huge find for any oil company but only six months of United States oil consumption at best. Any number of known efficiency measures could achieve the same end without violating an innocent landscape with a vast spider web of rigs, pipelines, drilling pods and airfields.
In recent testimony before Mr. Young's committee, Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt attacked the economic arguments but also made a valuable larger point. Opening up the refuge, he said, would be an ethical calamity, "the equivalent of offering Yellowstone National Park for geothermal drilling, or calling for bids to construct hydropower dams in the Grand Canyon. We can find a better way to produce energy and conserve our natural heritage."
He is right. Congress should not be seduced by its acquisitive members from Alaska.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ARCTIC (90%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (97%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA; UNITED STATES; TONGASS NATIONAL FOREST (ALASKA); ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE; UNITED STATES (97%); ARCTIC (90%); ALASKA, USA (97%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WILDERNESS (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); MAMMALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); FISHES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); LAND DEGRADATION (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (62%); 

PERSON: MURKOWSKI, FRANK H (SEN); YOUNG, DON (REPR); STEVENS, TED (SEN) DON YOUNG (78%); TED STEVENS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



542 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Senator Helms's Bargaining Chips

 BODY:
Senator Jesse Helms apparently does not yet recognize the distinction between narrow partisan squabbles and higher national interests.
In a disturbing display of pettiness, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee threatens to block action on all pending treaties, conventions and ambassadorial nominations unless he gets his way on a pet project to reorganize the State Department bureaucracy. 
 The prime victims of this threat would be two international arms control agreements vitally important to American security -- the international convention restricting chemical weapons and the second strategic arms agreement with Russia, which locks in steep warhead cuts on both sides.
Both agreements were originally negotiated by the Bush Administration. Both enjoy bipartisan support. First submitted for ratification by the Clinton Administration in 1993, both ran out of time in the last Congress. They would probably reach the Senate floor this fall with a good chance of being ratified before the distractions of the Presidential campaign were Mr. Helms not holding them back.
The Chemical Weapons Convention, signed by 159 countries, would ban development, production, acquisition or use of all chemical weapons and destruction of current stockpiles, backed up by short-notice inspections. Private chemical plants would also be inspected to assure that chemicals with both civilian and military uses were not being diverted for weapons purposes. The treaty incorporates every major American negotiating objective.
Mr. Helms earlier raised some substantive questions about how the treaty would operate, but the Administration reports that these have now been satisfactorily answered. The quarrel over State Department reorganization seems to be the only thing holding up committee hearings.
The strategic arms treaty would reduce the number of nuclear warheads carried on American and Russian submarines, bombers and long-range missiles by about two-thirds to approximately 3,500 for each country. There is every reason to ratify that treaty quickly, given the possibility of a more nationalist Russian Parliament emerging from elections this fall. Ratification by the present Russian Parliament is considered more likely if the Senate acts first. Mr. Helms has made clear he has no substantive objection to the Start II treaty.
The reorganization bill pressed by Mr. Helms, which has been blocked by Senate Democrats, would fold the Agency for International Development, the United States Information Agency and the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency into the State Department, probably saving a few million dollars in operating costs. There may be some merit to aspects of the proposal, although the information agency should retain its independence. But such micromanaging of the executive branch is better done through negotiation than by Congressional fiat.
If Mr. Helms is determined to hold out for his bill, he should choose a more suitable form of leverage than the two treaties. They are too important to be used as bargaining chips.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (57%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (57%); CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION (56%); CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION (56%); CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TREATIES; FOREIGN SERVICE MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (53%); 

PERSON: HELMS, JESSE (SEN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



543 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 28, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Illegal Aliens, Dirty Jobs

BYLINE: By Lloyd M. Krieger; Lloyd M. Krieger is a resident at U.C.L.A. Medical Center.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
I am in residency to become a plastic surgeon. Part of the training for that branch of medicine is in hand surgery. I once had a professor who said that you can tell a lot about a person by the type of hand injury they suffer.
My work at a Los Angeles County hospital has given me a fresh perspective on California's Proposition 187, the measure that, if it survives in court, would limit non-emergency medical treatment to illegal aliens, among other things. 
 People get all sorts of hand injuries. In barroom brawls, some people break their fists while punching someone in the jaw. Or people scrape their fingers against the other fighter's teeth, leading to severe infection. Others injure their fingers by putting their hand through a window. Some break their wrists while punching the wall in a drunken rage.
People also injure their hands on the job. I have seen all of these hand problems. Who gets what type of injury is interesting.
County hospitals cater to people without health insurance. Some of these people are unemployed. Others work but do not get insurance. In Southern California, many of the patients at county hospitals are illegal aliens.
It is often easy to tell who the illegals are, because they have no county hospital identification card, and they are wary of giving their names or addresses.
Two of these patients are particularly memorable. Manuel, a mechanic, came to the emergency room after crushing his right hand in an engine. The motor was running while he made some adjustments and with a split-second slip, his hand was sucked into the gears. His index finger was broken in several places; he had deep cuts and dirt in all of his fingers and his wrist.
From the moment he came to the emergency room, Manuel had one concern. He wanted his hand to work again so that he could return to his job. He explained in Spanish that he was supporting people back home in Mexico, and they depended on his checks.
 Enrique, a gardener, also came to the emergency room with a hand injury. His mower had become clogged with freshly cut grass, and he turned it over to release the jam. As he cleaned away the debris, the blades began spinning again. He suffered an amputation of the tip of his right thumb. Enrique also expressed only one concern. He wanted to have his hand repaired so that he could go back to work.
Manuel had surgery to fix his broken bones and sew up his cuts. Enrique had the skin of his thumb sewn together to cover the defect. When these men returned to the clinic for follow-up visits, I noticed something these men had in common. At no point did Manuel, who had fresh grease stains on his shirt, or Enrique, who had fresh grass stains on his pants, ask for a doctor's note to excuse him from work. The stories of these two men are typical of the many illegal aliens I have treated.
It is said that illegal immigrants take jobs away from American citizens. It is also said that they place a drain on the already strained California educational system and medical resources. I can't argue with these points. But I can say that the illegal aliens I encountered hurt their hands on the job, working vigorously to earn a living.
They did not seek tax-subsidized medical attention after a barroom brawl or a drunken wall-punching incident. I have no data to support it, but I would bet that the money the state and county spent to treat their hand injuries was more than returned to the California economy in the form of productivity from these men.
The fate of Proposition 187 will be determined in the courts and by the voters. If it is decided that illegal aliens should be denied medical care, I will comply. But from what I have seen, these patients might be more deserving of state resources than people realize. Providing those services might be a wise investment after all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; HEALTH INSURANCE ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (89%); BONE FRACTURES (89%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); REFUGEES (74%); 

PERSON: KRIEGER, LLOYD M (DR)

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1995



544 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Tough Stance Toward China Pays Off for Taiwan Leader

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan

 BODY:
Mention President Lee Teng-hui to Jimmy Lin, a bicycle shop owner, and he will begin gesturing with a wrench, or whatever is in his hand, saying: "He has been President too long, already eight years. Now he wants four more years -- we can't call this a democracy."
But mention mainland China's anger over Mr. Lee's visit to the United States in June and the military muscle-flexing that has followed, and Mr. Lin will switch gears to defend President Lee's policy of seeking greater international recognition for Taiwan -- even if Beijing mistakes this for a strategy to declare the island's independence. 
 "We are so rich, but we have no voice," Mr. Lin said. "Our voice is so low that no one can hear it.
Mainland China's campaign of military intimidation against Taiwan, which it regards as a renegade province, is causing millions of people on this island who otherwise were ambivalent -- or opposed -- to extending Mr. Lee's rule to come to his defense.
With the conclusion on Friday of China's second military exercise this summer, and a new exercise rumored to be starting soon in the South China Sea, the immediate effect has been to burnish a political image that had been losing some of its luster.
Being called a "traitor to the motherland" has tied Mr. Lee's personal destiny to Taiwan's as never before. His standing in opinion polls has gained 10 percentage points since Beijing loosed the People's Liberation Army to stage maneuvers in the East China Sea, where it has fired a broad assortment of air-, land- and sea-launched missiles into target zones about 100 miles off Taiwan's northern coast.
"I think Beijing is stupid; they are going too far," said Antonio Jiang, a prominent magazine publisher. "Lee Teng-hui is going to be elected and they are painting themselves into a corner" by scorching Mr. Lee with weekly attacks in People's Daily, the Communist Party newspaper.
"I don't know how they can find the ladder to climb down," Mr. Jiang said.
The confrontation has shaken business confidence, depressing real estate and securities prices. And it has frozen negotiations to open direct transportation and trade links across the Taiwan Strait, where 25,000 mainland industries have received a total of $20 billion in Taiwan investment.
A palpable sense of fear and anxiety about the next six months exists here. What is most dreaded is a protracted crisis.
"If that kind of pressure continues for a long time," Mr. Jiang said, people will think President Lee "is no longer capable of managing the relationship with Beijing."
There is no real panic, although people use the word a lot, as did the chief executive of one of the island's largest and most profitable electronics firms. "Business will continue as usual," he said, "but the business community is very panicked."
In offices and tea houses, all manner of people tell dark jokes about incoming Chinese missiles; they trade gossip about politicians and military leaders who are rumored to be using their American passports to get their families out of the country.
As if to send a signal to Beijing about the mutual threat to prosperity, Taiwan's Cal-Comp Electronics announced last week that it was suspending plans for a $20 million plant to manufacture computer monitors in China. The company's chairman said he would shift production to a more stable location in Southeast Asia if the risk of confrontation with the mainland continued.
To be sure, not everyone is defending the President.
Mention his name to Chi Chi-syun, a Chinese-language teacher whose grandfather was beaten so severely by the Communists in 1949 that he was mistakenly left for dead in a shallow grave, and she pours out her anxiety over tea.
"I am really afraid," she said. "I'm afraid the mainland is going to invade Taiwan because it believes Lee Teng-hui wants independence -- and I think he does," she added, despite his insistence that he does not.
Mr. Lee's political advisers understand that an unrelenting sense of crisis poses the biggest threat to his political fortunes.
"I would not deny that stability will be a very important issue in the presidential campaign," one of Mr. Lee's advisers said last week.
For the island's pro-independence forces, there is a certain giddiness about how Mr. Lee is advancing their cause, even as he says that is not his goal.
Some believe that if Mr. Lee were to win the presidency in March -- for the first time by direct vote in island-wide elections -- it would "institutionalize" Taiwan independence.
"Take Sichuan province, with more than 100 million people, or Guangdong province," said Parris H. Chang, a legislative leader of the pro-independence Democratic Progressive Party, comparing Taiwan and two of mainland China's largest provinces.
"Sichuan and Guangdong don't elect a President," he said. "But Taiwan is going to do so, and that means that Taiwan is an independent, sovereign entity."
He added: "Unless they are going to invade us before the balloting takes place to nullify what we are doing, the fact that we are going to the polls and can vote for a President means we are casting a vote for independence."
Referring to the mainland as the People's Republic of China, Mr. Chang said, "We are institutionalizing our independence and the P.R.C. is going to have to accept this reality."
With his announcement last week that he will stand for election by universal suffrage, President Lee is seeking to become the first Nationalist Party leader to try to straddle Taiwan's gaping political contradiction: on the one hand, a third of the voters support the Taiwan independence movement while the remaining two-thirds are divided over when and how to seek reunification with the mainland.
Many voters are fed up with the governing Nationalist Party. As the political heir of Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek, Mr. Lee must preside over an often corrupt vote-buying machinery controlled by a core of transplanted mainlanders who have never assimilated this subtropical island.
"The K.M.T. needs Lee Teng-hui more than Lee Teng-hui needs the K.M.T.," Mr. Jiang said, using the initials for the Nationalist Party, or Kuomintang. "He inherited its problems and corruption. Everyone despises the K.M.T., but they respect Lee Teng-hui."
A native Taiwanese who was selected by the party to serve after the death of Chiang Kai-shek's son in 1988, President Lee has consolidated his power by wooing -- his critics say pandering to -- the pro-independence population, most of them also ethnic Chinese, but with roots on the island going back hundreds of years.
"He is delivering what the people really want," said Jason Hu, the presidential spokesman. "You cannot survive in Taiwan unless you give the people what they really want."
For the moment, President Lee's strategy is to lower his own voice so as not to provoke further the Communist Party leadership in Beijing, now heavily under the influence of military commanders who would like to drive Mr. Lee from power.
"What can we do?" Mr. Hu asked. "We cannot give in."
Although Taiwan's voice is small, it is being heard as an economic powerhouse, with $90 billion in foreign exchange reserves and a computer-manufacturing industry whose output is now the world's third-largest.
Mr. Lee's strategy has been to use some of Taiwan's wealth to buy respect, lavishing aid on countries willing to grant Taiwan diplomatic recognition and, this summer, offering to donate $1 billion to the United Nations on the condition that Taiwan be admitted as a member, something Beijing, as a permanent member of the Security Council with veto authority, has said it will never allow.
Taiwan's de facto independence was guaranteed in the 1950's by the United States Navy and is maintained today by a robust Taiwan military, whose air force will soon be equipped with more than 200 top-of-the-line French Mirages and American F-16's.
Jimmy Lin, the bike man, sees the irony.
"Independence is impossible," Mr. Lin continued as he bustled around the gleaming road warriors in his bike shop the other day, his pot belly inflating his blue shop apron. "And reunification with the mainland is impossible. So what we have to do is make ourselves stronger -- it's a paradox."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Lee Teng-hui of Taiwan has soared in opinion polls. (Reuters) (pg. A1); Like many people in Taiwan, Jimmy Lin, a bicycle shop owner in Taipei, defends President Lee Teng-hui's policy of seeking greater international recognition despite military intimidation by China, which views the island as a renegade province. "We are so rich," Mr. Lin said, "but we have no voice." (Albert Huang for The New York Times) (pg. A8)
 
Map of Taipei, Taiwan (pg. A8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); TAIWAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA SEA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; TAIWAN; CHINA (98%); TAIWAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA SEA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (93%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TAIWAN; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTIONS MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); REAL ESTATE (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E; TENG-HUI, LEE (PRES) LEE TENG-HUI (96%); JIMMY LIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



545 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
As More Banks Vanish, Wall St. Cheers

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Wall Street, which five years ago feared that a lot of big banks would vanish, is now hoping they will do so. And a lot of new money is riding on that hope.
Most investors believe that the industry is sure to consolidate, and they have been betting that many banks will disappear after being acquired at a premium. Those banks that remain are expected to become more efficient -- largely by dismissing people and closing branches -- and thus keep profits high. There is little of the old concern about loan losses or the adequacy of reserves against losses. 
 Add the fact that analysts see improving conditions for the industry in the short run, and the recent enthusiasm about bank stocks becomes clearer. Banks, which have already been among the market leaders in 1995, are now even attracting those money managers who had given them no consideration.
"You are starting to see growth stock managers looking at these stocks," Charles Peabody, a bank analyst for UBS Securities, said yesterday, referring to money managers who concentrate on companies whose earnings are expected to rise rapidly. "I think that is where the next wave of money is going to come from."
The attitude on Wall Street could not be more different from the one that prevailed five years ago. Then, investors feared that a lot of big banks would vanish by going broke, the victims of bad loans.
Most banks survived that scare, and shareholders who did not bail out have been rewarded. Some big bank stocks are up more than 500 percent since then. So far this year, the Keefe, Bruyette & Woods bank index, which includes 24 large banks, has risen 41 percent, vastly outstripping the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which is up just 22 percent. Yesterday alone, in the enthusiasm generated by several bank deals, of which the Chase Manhattan-Chemical Banking merger was only the largest, the bank index leaped 3 percent while the S.& P. 500 was down a bit.
And banks could trade at far higher prices than they do now. Thomas Hanley, a bank watcher at CS First Boston, noted that money center banks -- the big banks based in New York and California -- now trade for around 8 times forecasted profits, with regional banks around 12 times expected earnings, although there is a substantial range.
"I think we will see an expansion of multiples when it comes to money center banks," he said, adding that Chemical, after it digests Chase (and changes its name to Chase), is expected to earn about $7.50 a share in 1996 and $9 in 1997. At 10 times the latter figure, that would be $90, far above yesterday's price of $60.125.
"It's almost like what we went through in 1971-73," Mr. Hanley said, recalling that big banks came to be viewed as growth stocks, with rapidly rising earnings, and saw their prices leap to well over 20 times earnings. Those wonderful days ended in a painful bear market that arrived in 1973.
The change in psychology in the past five years has been remarkable. It was in the fall of 1990 that bank stocks hit bottom, with big banks being forced to reduce or eliminate their dividends amid worries that they would fail due to bad loans both to developing countries and to leveraged buyouts and dubious real estate ventures in this country.
Of the current five largest bank holding companies, two -- Citicorp and Chemical -- are up more than 500 percent since the late-1990 lows. Two others, BankAmerica and Nationsbank, are up more than 200 percent. The laggard in the group is J. P. Morgan, up only 148 percent. During the same period, the S.& P. 500 has advanced 89 percent.
Since 1990, the banks have done more than survive. They have seen profits explode, thanks in large part to falling interest rates in the economy. This year's renewed enthusiasm for bank stocks is due in no small measure to the belief that the Federal Reserve will keep pushing rates lower.
The Fed deserves much of the credit for the revival of the banks. Not only did short-term rates come down, but they came down much more than longer-term rates. So for several years, banks could make impressive profits just by taking in deposits and lending the money to the Government by purchasing two-year or three-year Treasury securities.
That era is largely gone, with the rate structure much flatter. But Wall Street hopes further Fed easing will restore it, at least to some extent. In the meantime, worries about loan losses have largely vanished, as many banks have been able to cut loan-loss provisions as some loans written off in earlier times have proven to have some value.
It is a measure of Wall Street moods that enthusiasm for stocks is much higher after they have had huge runs. And the enthusiasm is sometimes greatest for banks with less than sterling records. "We look for stocks that are vulnerable to takeovers," where the threat of action will either inspire managements to take needed steps to boost profits or bring in acquirers, said Michael Mayo, a bank analyst for Lehman Brothers. His current list includes Mellon Bank of Pittsburgh, Southern National of North Carolina and First Commerce of New Orleans.
It is the intramarket mergers that have attracted the most attention. Combining two banks in the same area can produce savings in marketing costs and in personnel, as competing branches are closed. Bankers deny that it also reduces the incentive for price competition, but it probably does. Those savings are why both Chase and Chemical jumped in price yesterday.
Mr. Peabody, the UBS analyst, said he had focused on areas where bank consolidation was most likely, and concluded that these included the states of Louisiana, Alabama, Tennessee, Virginia and Michigan. Among his target candidates are AmSouth and Regions Financial, both based in Alabama; First Tennessee and First American of Tennessee; Signet in Virginia, and Hibernia in Louisiana.
Much of the takeover talk reflects the fact that regional barriers are breaking down, and there is much talk of truly nationwide banking -- with the assumption being that will come through mergers rather than through new competition. The possible expansion of insurance companies and Wall Street firms into banking -- which might or might not be legalized if Congress does act on financial deregulation -- is viewed as creating possible buyers, not increased competition that could drive down prices.
There is, to be sure, still some worry about possible bad credits. Mr. Peabody says he thinks the next credit crisis, if it does come, will be in consumer lending, and his recommendations reflect a belief in banks with commercial lending or other nonconsumer franchises.
Certainly there are signs of excess in consumer lending, as many people can attest to just from looking at all the credit-card and second-mortgage solicitations that have come their way. But the general view is that the economy is not likely to slip into recession, and that so long as it does not, banks will not run into profit problems.
In the meantime, profits for many banks are likely to look better in the third quarter because Federal deposit insurance premiums have been reduced. And the excess capital, which analysts put at $50 billion to $100 billion, is being used to buy back shares and to finance higher dividends, both pushing up shareholder returns.
Another issue that got some talk a year or two ago, but is almost ignored now, is the potential that the banks could see their consumer banking franchise vanish, just as money market mutual funds got a big chunk of the savings account business and securities firms siphoned off a lot of corporate lending through the commercial paper market. One risk is that new technology might allow computer or communications firms -- perhaps AT&T or Microsoft -- to provide banking services for much less than the banks, burdened by the costs of branches.
Instead, the prevailing Wall Street view has become that banks will have to invest a lot of money in new technologies, which will be wise only for those with substantial market shares. So that, too, has become an argument for expecting the wave of mergers to continue.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Labrecque, left, Chase Manhattan's chief, and Walter Shipley, his counterpart at Chemical. (Reuters)
 
Chart of six largest bank mergers in the last year indicating date of merger, target bank and value of deal upon completion. (Source: Securities Data Corporation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR; INDUSTRY PROFILES LAYOFFS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); MERGERS (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (77%); BAILOUTS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (67%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



546 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Are Mixed As a Two-Day Rally Ends

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed yesterday, as a two-day rally halted. After opening higher on follow-through buying, the market slid back but maintained its positive tone.
Analysts attributed last week's surge to the price of the September long bond futures contract's piercing a key technical level. In addition, traders noted, last week's minutes of July's Federal Open Market Committee meeting, which were not released until after the market closed on Friday, showed a bias toward easing, and that helped sustain the market's positive tone yesterday. 
 But if one were looking for a dominate factor yesterday, it was technical, according to James Hale, a fixed-income analyst for MMS International, a market research and analysis firm in San Francisco. "The September bond contract's inability to get above a major resistance price level of 11228/32 prompted some investors to sell and take profits." he said. Yesterday, it closed at 11216/32 .
The 30-year bond rose 3/32 , to a price of 1029/32 , leaving the yield unchanged from the 6.70 percent close on Friday.
Treasury securities benefited little from the flows out of mortgages, as speculation arose that the planned merger of Chemical Bank and Chase Manhattan would spur some liquidation of their huge combined mortgage portfolios. Mr. Hale said the idea was that the combined operation of the two banks could end up with some overlap, and that could lead to some liquidation of assets.
At one point in morning trading, most of the yield spreads between mortgages and Treasuries had widened slightly, Mr. Hale noted, but they tightened a bit later.
But he thinks the market's developing bullish tone will be tested by a wealth of data this week, particularly the heavy load of releases due on Friday that will include the closely followed employment report. "The market is becoming more accustomed to the slow-growth environment and the controlled rate of inflation," Mr. Hale said, "so I think there is room for more gains in the week ahead."
Elsewhere, bill rates at the Treasury's weekly auction were lower as the three- and six-month maturities both averaged 5.34 percent. The bid covers, or the ratio of total bids to the bids that are actually sold, were 4.02 for the three-month issues and 4.13 for the six-month issues. Analysts said these numbers were good, but not great, considering the smaller issue sizes in recent weeks.
Mr. Hale said retail demand at the bill auction was also decent. The results were about as expected, maybe even to the point of showing signs that bullish investors are starting to buy longer maturities, which is also a measure of comfort with the current rate environment.
Doug Burtnick, senior fixed-income analyst with Technical Data in Boston, said that while the bond market followed through briefly on last week's stunning rally, further gains would be tough because institutional investors who mostly missed the chance to buy into the market last week were now skeptical that a true bull run had been established. "Don't forget," he said, "that the week before Labor Day tends to be among the most quiet of the year. That alone will keep traders from extending too far over their skis and provide a lot of excuses along the lines of 'I want to see the employment data before I do anything.' "
In the municipal market, where states, cities and municipalities are expected to sell $1.1 billion in bonds this week, down from $3.3 billion last week, yields have fallen and investors have become encouraged that fund redemptions have slowed, while new sales are expected to shrink this week.
The Bond Buyer index of 40 various municipal issues saw the average yield decline 5 basis points, to 6.16 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three- and six-month bills:
 
 (000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.650	97.300	Discounted Rate	5.34%	5.34%	Coupon Yield	5.50%	5.58%	High Price	98.653	97.305	Discounted Rate	5.33%	5.33%	Coupon Yield	5.49%	5.57%	Low Price	98.650	97.295	Discounted Rate	5.34%	5.35%	Coupon Yield	5.50%	5.59%	Accepted at low price	83%	2%	Total applied for	$48,487,917	$49,925,074	Accepted	$12,058,567	$12,092,657	Noncompetitive	$1,402,572	$1,295,166	

Both issues are dated Aug. 31, 1995. The three-month bills mature on Nov. 30, 1995, and the six-month bills mature on Feb. 29, 1996.

GRAPHIC: Graph of 3-month Treasury Bills indicating average discounted rate in percent at weekly auction for period May 1995 to August 1995. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CHEMICAL BANK (55%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); MERGERS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); FUTURES (77%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INFLATION (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT JAMES HALE (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



547 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1672 words

HEADLINE: BANKING'S NEW GIANT: THE DEAL;
CHASE AND CHEMICAL AGREE TO MERGE IN $10 BILLION DEAL CREATING LARGEST U.S. BANK

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
Creating the biggest bank in the country, the Chemical Banking Corporation said yesterday that it would merge with the Chase Manhattan Corporation in a deal valued at nearly $10 billion.
The combined bank would take the better-known Chase name, though Chemical is much bigger than Chase and is the dominant partner in the merger. Walter V. Shipley, the chairman and chief executive of Chemical, will keep those titles at the new company. The combined bank would have $297 billion in assets, overtaking Citicorp as the nation's biggest. 
 The proposed merger follows a recent flurry of billion-dollar deals in banking. But most of the summer's other deals have represented expansions into new markets or new services; the Chase-Chemical merger is an effort to consolidate their hold on existing markets, sharply cutting costs as a result.
Chase and Chemical expect to cut $1.5 billion a year in expenses, by eliminating 12,000 of their combined 75,000 jobs and closing 100 overlapping branches. About a third of the job cuts will be in metropolitan New York.
Despite New York's status as the nation's banking capital, the deal shows that the city is not immune to the trend toward fewer banks with fewer branches. Since 1988, New York has lost 43,000 banking jobs, 36 percent of its total.
The deal gives Chemical a chance to repeat the successes it has had since merging with Manufacturers Hanover in 1992. For Chase, it represents a new start for a bank that had been the world's largest in the 1960's. Chase has since fallen to 6th in the United States and 59th in the world, with few business lines in which it is a clear leader.
Wall Street cheered the announcement of the merger yesterday. Chemical's shares jumped $5.75, to $60.125, on the New York Stock Exchange. Chase's stock rose $6.625, to $59.625.
The deal follows six months of pressure on the bank that began when Michael F. Price, an investment manager known for shaking up complacent companies, said he had bought 6.1 percent of Chase's stock and he called on the bank to sell divisions or take other actions to raise its lagging stock price.
"We like this deal a lot," Mr. Price said yesterday. "We think a merger makes much more sense than breaking up Chase." Mr. Price's 11 million shares of Chase have risen in value by 70 percent since his first purchases.
 Thomas G. Labrecque, Chase's chairman, said that Mr. Price's actions did not directly prompt the bank to act, but that over the last six months Chase had decided to seek a merger partner. Chase was first negotiating to merge with the BankAmerica Corporation of San Francisco, but those talks broke down in July, people familiar with the talks said. The deal with Chemical was largely put together over the last three weeks, although talks began earlier in the summer.
 "You look at what is going on with the consolidation of the industry, this is the right time to make what I think is a quantum leap," Mr. Labrecque said. "This deal will put us in a place we could never have been, certainly not in the next five years if we had tried to do it by ourselves. We are creating an absolute powerhouse."
 The combined bank will be the nation's leading lender to large corporations. It will have the largest trading revenue, and will be the leader in securities processing. It will be the fourth-largest provider of credit cards, the third-largest originator of new mortgages and the No. 1 servicer of existing mortgages. In New York, it will have the most consumer deposits and will be the leading lender to medium-sized businesses.
The new company is taking the Chase name because it is better known overseas, the companies said.
Under the deal, each Chase share will be exchanged for 1.04 shares of Chemical; at Friday's closing price for Chemical, that worked out to $56.55 a share, a total of $9.87 billion. At yesterday's higher price for Chemical stock, the deal is now worth $10.9 billion, or $62.53 for each Chase share.
 The deal accords Chase shareholders 43 percent of the stock of the combined company.
 "I think it's a great transaction," said Diane Glossman, a bank stock analyst with Salomon Brothers. "The combined institution will be better off than either of its predecessors, which is the best you can hope for in a merger."
 Others were not so impressed.
 "Neither bank has been going gangbusters," said Michael DeStefano, a managing director at the Standard & Poor's Corporation, a credit-rating agency. "They will get costs down, and that's good, but they need to grow their revenue to remain healthy, and we don't see where they will do that."
 As a result, S.& P. said the new Chase would not be rated any higher than A, the rating now accorded to Chase and Chemical. But Moody's Investors Service, another credit-rating agency, said it might upgrade the new Chase after the merger.
 Frank R. DeSantis, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said the merger would prompt him to recommend that his clients sell some of their Chemical stock.
 "You have to come away much more excited about the future potential," he said. "The problem is you have a heck of a lot more operating risk than before. The old Chemical was working pretty well."
The merger, which is subject to approval by shareholders and regulatory bodies, is expected to be completed by the end of March 1996.
While bank executives said they did not expect any antitrust issues to block the deal, banking lawyers said that regulators could force the sale of some branches.
 The Justice Department reviews more bank mergers than any other type of merger, and has clear, almost routine procedures for evaluating them. That allows banks to anticipate the result of the reviews and avoid mergers that might not be approved or that might require them to sell unacceptably large numbers of branches.
The merger activity nationwide shows no signs of slowing. Through Friday, there had been 197 bank acquisitions this year involving a total of $194.5 billion in assets. Before yesterday, the largest had been the $5.6 billion deal by the First Union Corporation of North Carolina to buy First Fidelity Bancorp of Newark.
With growth prospects weak throughout the banking industry, many executives have decided that this year's surge in stock prices has created the right time to sell.
Yesterday, the National City Corporation of Cleveland said it would buy the Integra Financial Corporation of Pittsburgh for $2.1 billion. And on Friday, Boatmen's Bancshares of St. Louis announced a deal to buy Fourth Financial of Wichita, Kan., for $1.2 billion.
 Indeed, these other deals, along with the run-up in bank stock prices, helped prod Chase and Chemical to consummate their deal now.
 "If the pace of mergers had not been as it has been this year, we might well have waited until next year," Mr. Labrecque said.
 Unlike the Chemical-Manufacturers Hanover merger, which was in negotiation for several years, the deal with Chase took only six weeks, the executives said.
 While the prospect of merging Chase with BankAmerica, the country's second-largest banking company, had the allure of building a coast-to-coast institution, the negotiations stalled as Chase executives felt that the San Francisco bank would have too much control of the combined institution, people familiar with those talks said.
 Mr. Labrecque said talks with BankAmerica were never serious. "We have talked to a number of people over time, and Chemical in my judgment was the first choice," he said.
 While most such mergers bog down on issues like executive perquisites and choosing a name, most of these matters were dispensed with quickly. Mr. Labrecque was willing to assume the No. 2 spot, and, in an unusual feature, the 56-year-old Chase executive does not have a formal arrangement to succeed the 59-year-old Mr. Shipley of Chemical.
 The bank executives did spend a lot of time filling the top 20 executive positions in the bank. Chemical's president, Edward D. Miller, 54, is to become senior vice chairman, responsible for consumer banking and technology. William B. Harrison, Jr. 52, a Chemical vice chairman, will be a vice chairman in charge of corporate and investment banking.
 E. Michel Kruse, 54, a Chase vice chairman who had run its corporate banking unit, is to be a vice chairman of the new bank looking after risk management, finance and the lucrative securities processing business.
 Richard J. Boyle, a vice chairman of Chase, will leave the bank.
 Mr. Shipley said he expected to integrate the banks in three years rather than the four years it took for Chemical and Manufacturers. "We've got the book now," he said "Last time we were writing the book."
Beyond the 4,000 jobs to be cut in New York, it is unclear where other cuts will come. Chase handles much of its mortgage business in Tampa, Fla., while Chemical performs that function in Cleveland. One of those offices may close, but that decision has yet to be made by the executives of the new bank.
 The headquarters of the new Chase will be in Chemical's offices at 270 Park Avenue. The banks said no decision had been made about continuing to occupy Chase's downtown headquarters tower.
 The combined institution traces its history back to 1799, when New York City granted a banking license to the Manhattan Company. That bank merged with the Chase National Bank, which was largely controlled by the Rockefeller family, in 1955. Chemical was founded in 1824 as a subsidiary of a chemical manufacturing company.
 David Rockefeller, who retired as Chase's chairman in 1980, cautiously praised the deal.
 "In view of recent developments in the banking industry, such a move seemed inevitable," he said from his vacation home in Maine. "I'm pleased, of course, that the Chase name will continue to stand among the great banks of the world. The sad aspect of such a combination, in order to realize the necessary economies of scale, is that the jobs of many employees apparently will be affected."

GRAPHIC: Graphs show total assets of four largest U.S. banks; Chase and Chemical banks total assets, loans, deposits and employees (pg. A1); "Biggest Banks Getting Even Bigger" list 10 largest bank holding companies (Sources: Keefe, Bryette & Woods, American Banker) (pg. D6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP; CITICORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP; CITICORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); MERGERS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHEMICALS (78%); CHEMICALS MFG (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TRENDS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (62%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL; SHIPLEY, WALTER V MICHAEL F PRICE (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



548 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-10
 
ATTACK ON SARAJEVO
An attack on the central market in Sarajevo, the Bosnian capital, killed at least 37 people, and the United States blamed the Bosnian Serbs and said that it was urging a military response. A1
In Sarajevo, a scene of carnage and despair. A10
CIRCLING WAGONS IN TAIWAN
Although the President of Taiwan has had waning support at home, the campaign of military intimidation by mainland China has caused millions of people in Taiwan to come to his defense. A1
China's Ambassador will return to Washington, a sign of a thaw. A8
THE VATICAN'S ENVOY
The Harvard law professor who was the Vatican's choice to lead its delegation to the world conference on women in Beijing is a social conservative who backs some radical economic measures. A3
JAPAN LEADERSHIP STRUGGLE
Japan's Trade Minister appeared to win the battle to lead the largest party in Japan's governing coalition when the Foreign Minister dropped out, but that is likely to make the coalition even more fragile. A6
A BETTER SHARK TRAP
Umhlanga Rocks Journal: Although South African swimmers take the threat of sharks seriously, a love-hate relationship has been developing with sharks there, causing officials to seek a better way to repel them. A4
 
Contact was made with an American hostage held in Kashmir. A8
 
NATIONAL A12-16
 
WIDENING NET IN BOMB CASE
Although investigators believe that the Oklahoma City bombing was largely the work of two men, they are now focusing on the friends and acquaintances of the suspects to see if any can be charged with knowing about the attack beforehand. A12
SECOND MENENDEZ TRIAL
The second trial of Lyle and Erik Menendez is imminent, and observers say a crucial question is whether the passion is still there. A12
WILSON MAKES IT OFFICIAL
On a visit to Manhattan, Gov. Pete Wilson of California again announced that he was running for President. A12
SCIENTIST CROSS-EXAMINED
A prosecutor in the O. J. Simpson case tried chipping away at Henry Lee, the forensic scientist. A13
CLINTONS GO CAMPING
The President and his wife and daughter slept under the stars while vacationing in Wyoming. A14
GOVERNOR PLEADS NOT GUILTY
Gov. Jim Guy Tucker of Arkansas said he was not guilty of fraud, conspiracy and making false statements in obtaining millions of dollars of loans. A14
RIFT ON MEDICAL INSURANCE
Republicans are interested in expanding the idea of medical savings accounts, an increasingly popular type of insurance. But critics say the accounts let insurance companies make money by covering only the healthiest Americans. A15
MORE FISH CALLED SUSPECT
The number of warnings issued by state health authorities against eating fish caught in polluted waters increased 20 percent in the last fiscal year. A16
NEW QUESTIONS IN UNABOM CASE
F.B.I. agents investigating the Unabom case have interviewed more than three dozen teachers in the Chicago area. A16
 
Metro Digest B1
 
BANK GIANTS TO MERGE
Chemical and Chase Manhattan agreed to merge in a $10 billion deal that would create the nation's biggest bank. A1
NEW YORKERS EXPECT CUTS
For New York City, the Chemical and Chase merger illustrates the increasing trend toward fewer banks with fewer branches and fewer employees. A1
COLOMBIAN PRISONERS DEPORTED
Eighty-six illegal immigrants from Colombia are to be flown home tonight under a new state law that allows for speeded-up deportation of aliens convicted of low-level crimes, officials said. A1
BOMB THREAT CLOSES AIRPORTS
A bomb threat that forced the evacuation of a critical air traffic control center on Long Island shut down the New York area's three major airports for more than an hour, delaying hundreds of arrivals and departures and affecting hundreds of other plane movements in a ripple effect across the nation. A1
Business Digest D1
Science Times C1-11
Exploring the plasticity of the very young child's brain. C1
Budget cuts seen as major risk for research and development. C1
The structure of the family analayzed across species lines. C1
Major research yields to the talents of minors: school children. C4
Peripherals C6
Q&AC7
Personal Computers C8
Arts/Entertainment C13-16
The Holmes and Watson of Alcott studies. C13
Music: Verdi's Requiem, as Tanglewood classical finale. C13
The third Charlie Parker Jazz Festival. C14
 
Dance: An arts complex revives as shows begin. C13
Books: "Hitchcock on Hitchcock." C16
Television: "HBO Comedy Hour: Hazelle." C16
Fashion Page B8
Fashion hitches a ride with Hollywood's shining stars.
Patterns
By Design
Sports B9-14
Baseball: Yanks find no comfort at home in losing to Royals. B9
Column: Araton on Steffi Graf. B9
Chass on baseball. B11
TV Sports. B13
Football: Giants get taste of Reeves's anger. B9
Jets prepare for Dolphins. B12
Horse Racing: Lukas connections close Saratoga with a winner. B9
Tennis: Seles makes quick work of first-round Open opponent. B9
Obituaries B6-7
David Warrilow, actor. B6
Page Smith, historian, and Eloise Pickard Smith. B7
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
Editorials
Mr. Clinton acts on Yellowstone.
Restarting Bosnia's peace talks.
Fire and fortitude on Long Island.
An insult to Miss Liberty.
Letters
Russell Baker: The electric cannibal.
George P. Fletcher: The Simpson-and-Fuhrman trial.
Everett C. Ladd: Medicare -- which of the above?
Steven Rattner: Leaky boats on the rising tide.
Chronicle B2
Chess C7
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (82%); CMB (NYSE) (56%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); TAIWAN (94%); JAPAN (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: KASHMIR (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (57%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (82%); CHASE MANHATTAN CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); TAIWAN (94%); JAPAN (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ASIA (79%); KASHMIR (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (57%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); EVIDENCE (75%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); WOMEN (73%); FORENSICS (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); RELIGION (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



549 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Stratus Computer to Dismiss 500 in Revamping

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: MARLBORO, Mass., Aug. 28

 BODY:
Stratus Computer Inc. said today that it would dismiss 500 employees, or 18 percent of its work force, to cut costs and bolster profitability.
 The company, a computer systems concern based here, said it would take a fiscal third-quarter charge of $20 million for the revamping, which would include consolidating some operations. 
 "Historically, they've done a pretty good job of being able to do more with less," John B. Jones, an analyst at Salomon Brothers, said. "It should have a positive impact on earnings."
 William E. Foster, the company's chief executive, said Stratus was cutting the jobs to be competitive with other companies that are reducing costs.
 "The entire computer industry is changing its economic model to reflect this new paradigm," Mr. Foster said. "We are taking this action to better align our cost structure with this new business model."
 Stratus stock was up 50 cents a share today, at $26.50, on the New York Stock Exchange.
 Analysts said the company hinted at cuts in a conference call last month, about the time Stratus reported earnings for the second quarter ended July 2 had dropped 65 percent, to $6.1 million, from the corresponding period a year earlier on a decline in revenue.
 "They said margins were dropping faster than they had expected," Mr. Jones said. "To people who know the company, they were saying, 'Expect a write-off.' "
 Stratus makes fault-tolerant computer hardware and software, used in bank machines, telephone systems, gasoline pumps and other systems where availability is crucial.
 Stratus along with Tandem Computers Inc. of Cupertino, Calif., hold about 97 percent of the market for fault-tolerant systems, Mr. Jones said.
 Other computer-hardware companies have started to compete with fault-tolerant systems by selling high-availability systems, less costly hardware that does not offer quite as much availability. Companies buy those systems when they are trying to cut costs or if absolute availability is not essential.
 Mr. Foster said the recent increases in efficiency meant the employee reduction would probably not affect production. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SRA (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (95%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: STRATUS COMPUTER INC STRATUS COMPUTER INC (95%); TANDEM COMPUTERS INC (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STRATUS COMPUTER INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); EXECUTIVES (55%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM E FOSTER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



550 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
French Political Moves Cited For Dollar's Drop vs. the Mark

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar slipped against the mark yesterday as the German currency continued to gain from concerns raised by the departure of the French Finance Minister.
The resignation of the minister, Alain Madelin, on Friday revived currency traders' concern that the three-month-old Government of President Jacques Chirac is not committed to cutting France's budget deficit. That worry led market participants to buy marks for francs, and the buying spilled over against the dollar as well. 
 "The Deutsche mark is still being bid off the resignation of the French Finance Minister," said Rich Marra, currency salesman at Midland Bank in New York.
Traders said an American investment fund sold $250 million to $500 million for marks. With markets in London closed for a holiday and many senior traders around the world on vacation, a small amount of dollar selling had a large impact on currency rates, market participants said. London is the world's most active center for foreign exchange trading.
"The move has been exacerbated by the thinness of trading," said Kevin Lawrie, manager of foreign exchange at Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh.
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar fell to 1.4667 marks from 1.4707 marks on Friday. The dollar rose to 96.77 Japanese yen from 96.66 yen. The British pound fell to $1.5497 from $1.5510.
The dollar continues to suffer from the weak durable-goods report, issued on Thursday, which pointed to possible lower interest rates ahead. The data undercut the benefits to the dollar that day when the German central bank cut two important interest rates.
Lower interest rates hurt a country's currency by making bank deposits denominated in that currency less attractive.
Still, Mr. Lawrie of Mellon Bank and others do not expect the dollar's current weakness to last long. The commitment of central banks to support the dollar is a big factor favoring the dollar, they said. "The central banks have a grip on the market," Mr. Lawrie said.
The memory of a dollar-buying spree on Aug. 15 by the central banks of Germany, the United States and Japan -- variously estimated at $1 billion to $4.5 billion -- is still fresh in market participants' minds.
"People are looking for points at which the central banks will come in again," said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics, a consulting firm. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; FRANCE; FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS CURRENCIES (94%); GERMAN MARK (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); DURABLE GOODS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%); 

PERSON: MADELIN, ALAIN JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



551 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Women's Forum Is a Test for Pope's Advocate

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Aug. 28

 BODY:
Mary Ann Glendon, the Harvard law professor who is the Vatican's surprising choice to head its delegation to the United Nations Conference on Women that starts next week in Beijing, does not fit easily into stereotypes.
A pioneer in her profession who had to battle discrimination, she rejects what she calls "radical feminism." A social conservative, she worked in the civil rights movement in Mississippi and champions radical economic measures to benefit the third world. 
 Though an implacable foe of unrestricted abortion, through her legal writings she is known as a searcher for common ground -- promoting, for example, more local control over abortion laws along with greater aid to pregnant women and mothers.
Yet she says she could not agree more with John Paul II, a Pope known for his rigid defense of traditional Catholic teachings not only on abortion but also on contraception and the role of women in the church.
Now, Ms. Glendon's skill as a quiet persuader is apt to be sorely tested as she is thrust into the cacophony of a United Nations conference. It is the kind of forum where quiet reasoning is often shouted down and the Vatican often finds itself battling much of the world over the precise wording of resolutions on "reproductive health" or the role of the family.
It remains to be seen whether Ms. Glendon, 56, will prove to be a kind of stealth weapon for the Vatican line, as her critics contend, or represents a new Vatican intention to seek out consensus.
In her office at Harvard last week, Ms. Glendon was unperturbed by the challenge, calling it "a great honor."
She was raised as a Catholic but has a personal history that is as complex as her politics. In her early twenties, she went to Mississippi to take part in the civil rights movement. There she met her first husband, whom she describes as "an African-American lawyer," and with whom she had her first child.
They later divorced, although Ms. Glendon takes pains to note that it had been a "civil marriage." She considers her subsequent church-sanctioned marriage to Edward Lev, now a retired lawyer and writer and a Jew, as "my first marriage."
It is a measure of both her academic achievements and diplomatic skills that she wins high praise even from liberal colleagues at Harvard Law School, where political divisions tend to be bitter.
Laurence H. Tribe, a professor of constitutional law who supports a woman's right to have an abortion, described Ms. Glendon as "an insightful and probing scholar" who is "charming and persuasive and can be authoritative without being overbearing."
Of her political views, Ms. Glendon says: "I always laugh when I hear myself described as a conservative." She characterizes herself as "politically homeless," because she believes that she is "more liberal than the hard right wing of the Republican Party and more conservative than the liberal wing of the Democratic Party."
On most economic issues, Ms. Glendon said: "My thinking grows straight out of the social teachings of the Catholic church. The earth and its resources are the common heritage of mankind and the rich are privileged and should give to their brothers and sisters." This has led her to favor debt reduction policies embraced by the developing world and made her a powerful advocate of greater support for women and children in divorce.
On abortion, Ms. Glendon does not mince words. "The whole question about abortion is related to the coarsening of the social fabric," she said. "It promotes a certain callousness which has frightening implications for the future." What message, she asks, does such easy access to abortion send to today's children "about helplessness and inconvenient life?"
Ms. Glendon, still one of only a handful of professors at Harvard Law who are women, faced insults and discrimination for years.
When she graduated from law school at the University of Chicago at the age of only 21 and as an editor of its law review, she recalled, she interviewed for a job on Wall Street. At one prestigious law firm a male receptionist, after looking over the young blond woman in front of him, told her: "We don't hire female secretaries. They have to go on overnight trips with the partners."
Despite that personal history, she rejects much of the feminist movement as irrelevant.
"Some of my best friends are radical feminists," she said. "These are women of great intelligence and character." But she added: "The feminist movement of the 1970's is already an old-line sideline movement that has made itself marginal to the concerns of most women."
"What made it obsolete is loyalty tests, like abortion, and lack of concern with the real problems of American women," she added. "The real question is, how do I have a decent family life plus participate in the world of work. For most women, the problem is poverty."
Ms. Glendon was born in the small town of Dalton, in the Berkshires of western Massachusetts, where her father was a reporter for the Berkshire Eagle. When she was 12, he taught her how to keep score in baseball, then had her cover a semi-pro league, a job she kept through high school and summers while at college at the University of Chicago.
She has three daughters, now all in their twenties: one from her first marriage, one adopted from Korea, and one with Mr. Lev.
"We are very proud to celebrate diversity in our family," she said. "One of the things I love about the Catholic church is that it embraces one billion people in all corners of the earth."
Ms. Glendon still goes to Mass every Sunday and her daughters have all been raised as Catholics.
Ms. Glendon's popular writing includes nine books, most recently "A Nation Under Lawyers: How the Crisis in the Legal Profession Is Transforming American Society."
She often harks back to the values of her upbringing. What is rapidly deteriorating in America and what is badly needed, she believes, are "structures" like the family, neighborhoods, religious groups and labor unions -- potential buffers between what she sees as the damage inflicted by too much individualism and the dangers of big government.
Whatever critics think of Ms. Glendon's views on abortion, what makes her difficult to attack is her personal charm, many of her friends and colleagues say. "Along with being very smart, Mary Ann is everyone's favorite most reasonable person," said David Blankenhorn, the president of the Institute for Americian Values in New York. "If you think of a person who you would want to bring two sides together to see where there is common ground, it is her," Mr. Blankenhorn said.
Those who have fought Ms. Glendon's views see her appointment with chagrin. "The bottom line is, the Pope chose someone who is more conservative than he is, an anti-abortionist, not a women's rights advocate," said Frances Kissling, president of Catholics for a Free Choice, in Washington. "He picked a person who can stand up in the public relations battle, who can speak the language of women, who is modern, smart, and professional, who can go toe to toe with Hillary Clinton."
Behind her charm Ms. Glendon can be relentlessly tenacious on the principles she holds dear. Still, on some issues, like contraception, she seems to waver from the Vatican's unyielding stance.
Asked how she would represent the Pope's views on this issue, Ms. Glendon said, "I think it is very difficult for people to understand the church's teaching in a permissive, secular society." She insisted that the church is "not opposed to family planning." Decisions on the number and spacing of children should be made by parents "in view of their responsibility to each other, existing children, and God," she said.
Only events will tell, but Ms. Glendon may well be the perfect weapon in Beijing for a Vatican that knows it will never get its way entirely but hopes to steer the world toward its own vision of women's progress.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Ann Glendon, a Harvard law professor and the Vatican's delegate to the United Nations Conference on Women, on the Harvard campus. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (93%); HOLY SEE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING (CHINA); CHINA (93%); HOLY SEE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES RELIGION (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); ABORTION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLITICS (76%); FAMILY (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); WRITERS (70%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: GLENDON, MARY ANN (PROF); BUTTERFIELD, FOX POPE JOHN PAUL II (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



552 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: BANKING'S NEW GIANT: THE NEW CHIEF;
Quiet Captain Weathers An Industry's Storms

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT 

 BODY:
In an era when many a bank executive's career has been cut short by lending mistakes or the misfortune of being involved in a merger, Walter V. Shipley appears to have lived a charmed life.
Mr. Shipley, who has been at the top of the Chemical Banking Corporation for nearly 14 years, has survived the lending mistakes of the late 1970's and 1980's. When those mistakes caused Chemical to seek a merger with the hard-pressed Manufacturers Hanover Corporation in 1991, Mr. Shipley was willing to take a back seat briefly before reclaiming the chief executive position early last year. 
 Now, the 6-foot 8-inch banker, with the friendly face that looks younger than his 59 years, is poised to become head of the Chase Manhattan Corporation, which agreed to merge with Chemical to become the country's largest banking company.
While Mr. Shipley has never hired a public relations specialist to buff up his image, and lacks the public recognition of banking celebrities like John S. Reed, the chairman of Citicorp, or the outspoken aggressiveness of Hugh McCall, the chairman of Nationsbank, of Charlotte, N.C., bankers said it would be a mistake to assume that he lacks ambition.
Chemical's reputation as a stodgy bank is fading, and executives at other banks now talk about the emergence in the past few years of "a new pride" at Chemical, which they attribute mostly to the company's marked success in cutting costs, and increasing profits since the Manufacturers Hanover merger.
"Don't mistake the lack of publicity for a lack of testosterone," said one banker who has known Mr. Shipley for many years. "When Walter Shipley wants something he goes for it, and he is extremely adept at operating in the network of other bankers, his board of directors and big customers." In banking circles, Mr. Shipley is very well known, and has for many years been a leader in the Reserve City Bankers, an organization of large American banks that has pushed for interstate branching and for banks to expand into other finanical businesses like securities and insurance.
By contrast, Thomas G. Labrecque, Chase Manhattan's chief executive, rose through the ranks as an administrator.
Mr. Shipley started his career in 1956 the old fashioned way -- calling on business customers and making loans. That background has not insulated Chemical from such Gargantuan mistakes as loans to less-developed countires in the late 1970's (when Mr. Shipley was head of the international department) or the billions in loans for real estate projects in the mid-1980's, but it does give Mr. Shipley a thorough grounding in the lending business.
When Chemical was beset in 1990 with rumors of ever-mounting loan losses, Mr. Shipley was informed enough about the subtleties of loan values and practices of bank examiners that he could state loudly -- with a slap of his oversized hand on the table -- that the company was fully informed about its loan problems, and was not in a position where regulators would force it to admit to even larger losses.
"Walter's greatest contribution is as a strategic thinker," said Thomas Hanley, a banking analyst at CS First Boston who has known Mr. Shipley for two decades. "Time after time he has come through with the right decisions," Mr. Hanley said, pointing to such decisions as the buildup of Chemical's consumer business, the acquisiton of Texas Commerce Bank in Houston, and the dismantling of its low-profit international lending office.
Many bankers have talked about mergers, Mr. Hanley said, but few can say they have done as good a job at finding the right partner and then executing the merger in a way that produces profits.
Mr. Shipley's first big bank deal, the 1987 purchase of Texas Commerce Bank in Houston, did not win him many fans at the time. The troubled Texas bank racked up losses of hundreds of millions of dollar the next few years. As the Texas economy deteriorated, other Texas banks failed and were bought for a tiny fraction of what Chemical paid. Wall Street bankers were quick to put pressure on Chemical to shed its ill-starred acquisiton.
Today, Chemical counts Texas Commerce as a crown jewel.
Marc Shapiro, head of Texas Commerce and an executive who many expect to assume a higher post at Chemical, recalls those dark days as a time when Mr. Shipley showed his confidence in the executives he relied on for day-to-day management of the company.
"He understood that as bad as our numbers looked, we had actually done a decent job given the local economy," Mr. Shapiro said, "and he supported the people down here."
Mr. Shipley's preference to arrange key executive moves before a merger is announced, and then stick to his plan, may owe much to his own experience as a low-level employee of the New York Trust Company, when it was bought by Chemical in 1959. As all the New York Trust officers were shunted aside, he recalled recently how "that generated a lot of negative emotion."
Although Mr. Shipley's youth was just exuberant enough for him to leave Williams College without a degree, he moved easily into a banking career. His father was a banker at Brown Brothers Harriman, and to this day, Mr. Shipley, who earned a B.S. degree from New York University in 1961, retains a keen respect for the old-fashioned practice of building a business on relationships. He is an avid golfer who often plays courses in Scotland and Ireland.
"He is a good person to take on a visit to a customer, whether it is the biggest oil company in the world, or a small driller in El Paso," Mr. Shapiro said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); NEW YORK (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP NEW YORK (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); CELEBRITIES (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL; SHIPLEY, WALTER V WALTER V SHIPLEY (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



553 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Hard-Line Trade Minister Wins Party Leadership

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 28

 BODY:
Japan's outspoken Trade Minister, who stared down the United States in the recent automobile negotiations, essentially won the battle today to lead the largest party in the governing coalition, enhancing his chances of becoming the next Prime Minister.
Ryutaro Hashimoto became the near certain choice to lead the Liberal Democratic Party today when his opponent for the job, Foreign Minister Yohei Kono, suddenly dropped out of the race as it became obvious he would lose by a wide margin. While it is possible that another candidate will enter the race before the Sept. 22 party vote, it is considered highly unlikely that anyone could beat Mr. Hashimoto. 
 The expected ascension of the 58-year-old Mr. Hashimoto to the presidency of the Liberal Democrats threatens to further destabilize the already fragile Government because he is a nationalistic conservative whose policies are at odds with those of the other two parties in the coalition, including the Socialist Party of Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama.
Mr. Murayama, for example, apologized this month for Japan's aggression in World War II. Mr. Hashimoto is chairman of the Bereaved Families Association, a million-strong group of relatives of Japanese soldiers who died in the war. It led the fight against any apology.
"It's not clear how it will happen, but the Murayama coalition will collapse after Mr. Hashimoto becomes president," Masumi Ishikawa, a political columnist for the Asahi Shimbun, one of Japan's largest newspapers, said tonight. Still, Mr. Hashimoto has pledged his support for the coalition, so other analysts think the current Government will remain in place for months.
It is not clear yet whether Mr. Kono will resign from his positions as Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, which might necessitate a Cabinet shuffle. Mr. Kono, 58, said today that he would leave that up to Prime Minister Murayama, who has not yet commented.
Mr. Kono, who is the incumbent party president, is relatively liberal and his views meshed with the Socialist Party and the other coalition partner, the small Sakigake Party.
Despite the potential for conflict between Mr. Hashimoto and Mr. Murayama, some analysts noted that the Liberal Democrats and Socialists, who were archenemies for 40 years, have never been very compatible yet have stayed in a marriage of convenience for the sake of remaining in power. That motivation remains.
Moreover, there is strong pressure for the Government to hold itself together for at least a few months, long enough to draw up a new stimulus package to help Japan's faltering economy and to play host to a meeting of leaders from Asian-Pacific region countries, which will be held in Osaka in November.
Nor is it certain that Mr. Hashimoto will be able to fulfill his long-held ambition of becoming Prime Minister. His victory today was in some sense equivalent to winning the primary. But it is not clear the Liberal Democrats would be able to win enough seats in Parliament to be able to choose the next Prime Minister.
In announcing that he would not run for re-election as party chief, Mr. Kono said he wanted to avoid "strife" in his party. But it had become clear in recent days that he would lose badly because he is being held responsible for the party's failure to win as many seats as it expected in elections last month for the upper house of Parliament.
Party members, especially younger ones, also expect the more aggressive Mr. Hashimoto to have a better chance of leading the party back to its former glory. The Liberal Democratic Party, which despite its name is conservative, held power for nearly 40 years until 1993, when it was overthrown because of voter disgust with rampant corruption. The Liberal Democrats squeezed back into power in June of last year by allying with the Socialists.
Mr. Hashimoto, known for his slicked-back hair and cigarette holder, is one of Japan's more outspoken and colorful politicians. At one point during the recent auto talks he said of Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, "He's scarier than my wife when I get drunk."
He has defended Japan's huge trade surplus as a "precious asset," and his nationalist streak has sometimes made him difficult for the United States to deal with.
In the automobile talks, Mr. Hashimoto refused to agree to Washington's demands to come up with voluntary targets for Japan's purchase of foreign auto parts, despite the threat of tariffs on Japanese luxury cars. His strong stance appears to have raised Mr. Hashimoto's popularity, and a recent newspaper public opinion poll pegged him as most popular choice for Prime Minister.
Even if he becomes Prime Minister, Mr. Hashimoto might not bring about significant changes in Japan's policies because politicians often exercise less power than the bureaucracy, especially if they are operating in a coalition.
"There is not too much difference in policy," said Ikuo Kabashima, professor of political science at the University of Tsukuba. "It's more image we see."
There are two ways Mr. Hashimoto can become Prime Minister. One would be for Mr. Murayama to resign and hand the job to Mr. Hashimoto. While analysts say the 71-year-old Mr. Murayama is tired and unpopular and might not be averse to that, his party might not accept it.
The other way would be for Mr. Murayama to call for new elections for the lower house of Parliament, which many people would expect to happen late this year or in the first half of next year. In that case, Mr. Hashimoto would become Prime Minister if the Liberal Democratic Party won a clear majority of seats.
But Professor Kabashima said a clear Liberal Democrat victory is unlikely because the opposition New Frontier Party, based on its performance in the upper house elections in July, looks to be pretty strong.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (84%); SOCIALIST PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (84%); SOCIALIST PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); OSAKA, JAPAN (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); CONSERVATISM (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (MIN); MURAYAMA, TOMIICHI (PRIME MIN); POLLACK, ANDREW RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (96%); YOHEI KONO (76%); TOMIICHI MURAYAMA (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



554 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: BANKING'S NEW GIANT: THE DISPLACED;
Job Losses to Fall Hard in New York City

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
In a city where finding work remains tough, thousands of New Yorkers face losing their jobs in the wake of the merger of Chemical Bank and Chase Manhattan Bank.
The two banks, which together employ about 75,000 people across the country and overseas, said yesterday that they expected to cut about 12,000 positions in the next three years, about a third of them in New York City. 
 While many of those cuts could come from attrition -- about 20 percent of the banks' employees leave every year, according to Kenneth Herz, a spokesman for Chemical Bank -- layoffs will probably be necessary to achieve the cost savings in certain areas that managers are expected to seek.
And the toll could be higher here than predicted, some analysts suggested, because the banks are planning to eliminate 100 of their 480 branches in the city. Indeed, that number could grow. When Chemical Bank bought Manufacturers Hanover in 1992, it said it would eliminate 80 branches, but in fact the number of branches has dropped by 177.
Moreover, both banks have many clerical and technical workers -- what the industry calls "back office" employees -- in the New York region, and their offices are likely to be consolidated and perhaps moved out of the area. Big banking companies like Citicorp have increasingly moved their back offices to the South and Midwest.
The cuts come at a time when overall job growth in New York City has been flat, and few industries can be described as robust. Even though national employment has been growing strongly for much of the last three years, roughly 3.3 million people were on payrolls in the city as of July, nearly the same number as a year ago, according to the New York State Department of Labor. The city has lost about 240,000 jobs in the last five years.
"It will be very, very difficult for the people affected here to move into other sectors of the economy," said John L. Wieting, regional commissioner for the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics in New York. "There aren't a lot of other sectors seeing major expansion right now."
The job losses may also hurt other industries and even local governments that find their tax rolls shrinking.
"The ripple effects should extend to virtually every area and facet of the economy -- the real estate markets, house prices and rents, local stores and retailers of all kinds," said David Hensley, an analyst at Salomon Brothers. But because the effects will occur over several years and will be widely dispersed across the region, he said, "this shouldn't be viewed as a death blow."
Many of the city's job losses have already come in the banking industry, which was a big source of employment growth in the early 1980's. At commercial banks alone, the number of jobs has plunged from 118,000 in July of 1988 to fewer than 75,000 today.
On a percentage basis, the drop in banking jobs has been even steeper than in manufacturing, Mr. Wieting said. Jobs at banks and other financial institutions like credit unions have fallen 36 percent since 1988, just before the most recent peak in New York City employment, while manufacturing jobs have dropped somewhat less.
Unfortunately for the banking employees, industries that hire workers with similar skills have also suffered drops, said Jeffrey Weissenstein, who analyzes labor markets for New York State. Ten thousand fewer people work in the insurance industry today than in 1989. And the securities business, despite a rebound since 1991, has lost more than 13,000 jobs from its peak of 163,000 in 1987.
One area that has recently been growing is business services, which includes everything from advertising to office cleaning. Here, there has been a gain of about 17,000 jobs in the last three years, to 225,000, though it is far below its peak of 265,000 jobs in 1988.
"In the city as a whole, the areas that have continued to grow are health services and social services, and that seems to be iffy right now," Mr. Weissenstein said, noting that some hospitals have announced cutbacks. Plans in Washington and Albany to rein in spending on Medicare, the health care program for the elderly, and Medicaid, which pays for medical services for the poor, are likely to add to the job losses.
New York is not the only area to lose banking-industry jobs. Nationwide, the number of people working for banks, savings and loans, and other depository institutions has fallen by about 222,000 since July 1989, or roughly 10 percent of the work force. In California, financial institutions have retrenched even more steeply, not only because of mergers and takeovers, but because of problems in the real estate business and high mortgage rates, Mr. Hensley of Salomon Brothers said.
Nationwide, while more than two million people remain employed by banks and related institutions, the outlook for bank workers is bleak. The accounting firm of Deloitte & Touche predicts that as many as 450,000 further jobs may be swept away over the next decade.
Behind the decline is the expected demise of bank branches, which are threatened not just by mergers, but also by new technology.
"Our forecast in that in the next 5 or 10 years, a great deal of the work done in branches will be done electronically," said Frank Woosley, national director of financial-services consulting for Deloitte & Touche.
Though 40 percent of all banking transactions were done in branches last year, only a quarter are expected to take place in branches by the end of the century. And branch employment is directly related to the amount of work that occurs there, Mr. Woosley said.
The one bright spot in New York City's overall employment picture is that private industry overall is adding jobs, albeit at a slow pace. In the last 12 months, companies have created 20,000 positions, though those gains have been offset by a drop in government jobs.
"There is enough growth in the private sector, if the government ever stabilizes," Mr. Hensley said. "People shouldn't feel like they have no options."

GRAPHIC: Chart indicating loss of jobs within New York City and New York State banking industry from period 1988 to present. (Source: New York State Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); CHEMICAL BANK (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; CHEMICAL BANKING CORP BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; BANKS AND BANKING; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) LAYOFFS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); MERGERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (71%); STATISTICS (70%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); RETAILERS (60%); HOME PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



555 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Selling Weaken Stocks, With Dow Off 7.40

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The stock market succumbed to selling yesterday that weighed down major market indicators despite an upbeat performance by banking issues.
News of the $10 billion planned merger of the Chemical Banking Corporation and the Chase Manhattan Corporation to form the country's biggest bank intensified speculation about other consolidation in the industry, and many financial issues rose. In other banking deals yesterday, the National City Corporation said it would buy the Integra Financial Corporation for $2.1 billion and SFFed Corporation, the parent of the San Francisco Federal Savings and Loan Association, said it would be acquired by First Nationwide Bank in a $250 million deal. 
 But the buying in the banking sector had a minimal impact marketwide.
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 7.40 points, to 4,594.00, after turning lower in the afternoon.
Broader market indicators were also lower, with the Nasdaq composite index skidding 11.82 points, to 1,008.15, after a slump in technology shares.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index dipped 0.16 point, to 300.69, and the Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 1.05 points, to 559.05. The American Stock Exchange market value index declined 0.79 point, to 530.18.
Advancing stocks led declining issues by 1,145 to 1,104 on the New York Stock Exchange, where trading activity eased. Volume on the Big Board's floor amounted to 267.9 million shares.
Market analysts said Wall Street was destined to remain listless this week in the sessions leading up to the long Labor Day weekend. United States financial markets will be closed next Monday for the holiday.
"It just appeared to be a pre-Labor Day lull," said Ned Riley, chief investment officer of the Private Bank, an investment subsidiary of the Bank of Boston. "Clearly, the economy news at the end of the week will dictate the trend, especially in the bond market, which undoubtedly will affect equities."
The employment report for August, scheduled for release on Friday, kept investors from making major commitments to the market. The report will be scrutinized for hints about the health of the economy.
Most forecasters do not expect the report to contain market-moving news, but if the data depict unexpectedly vigorous economic growth, both the stock and bond markets could be disappointed. Many investors are hoping the Federal Reserve will nudge interest rates lower again next month, but signs of an economic revival could deter the central bank.
The merger news provided a focus for investors, although the impact was confined to banking issues.
Chase Manhattan topped the Big Board's list of active issues, spurting 6 5/8, to 59 5/8, on trading of 7.95 million shares. Chemical rose 5 3/4, to 60 1/8, and was the second-most-active Big Board stock, with more than 6.9 million shares changing hands.
Several other banks were among the heavily traded issues. Citicorp, which will be displaced as the nation's biggest bank if the Chase-Chemical union is completed, was up 7/8, to 66 1/2. PNC Bank rose 1/2, to 26; Bank of New York rose 2 5/8, to 43 3/4, and Bankers Trust New York rose 2 1/4, to 69 7/8.
Technology stocks were laggards on the New York Stock Exchange, International Business Machines declined 2 1/4, to 101 5/8; Motorola fell 1 7/8, to 70 7/8, and Texas Instruments was down 3 5/8, to 70 7/8.
Prominent among Nasdaq's decliners were the volume leader, Intel, down 1 3/4, to 58 5/8, and Microsoft, down 45/16 , to 901/16 .

GRAPHIC: Table of favorite stocks indicating performance of 15 issues. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); PNC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (91%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (91%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (91%); FIRST NATIONWIDE BANK (83%); SAN FRANCISCO FEDERAL SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION (71%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); NYSE MKT LLC (55%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MERGERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); US LABOR DAY (87%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



556 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: Health Plans That Can Put Cash Into Workers' Pockets Are Finding Favor

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Melissa Holloway, a City Council member in Jersey City, may get a $700 windfall from a health plan that rewards people who use few or no medical services. The city earmarked $1,400 for individuals and $1,800 for families in special medical savings accounts this year. She has used hers only once so far, for a battery of tests that found no problems. At the end of the year, she can keep the balance remaining in her account.
The health plan, which Jersey City offered to 174 nonunion employees in a one-year trial, also provides a Blue Cross of New Jersey health plan that pays all costs after a high deductible is met. Individuals in the new program pay the deductible, the first $1,500 in medical bills, with money from the accounts and their own pockets; for an employee with family coverage, the deductible is $2,000. Other employees have conventional Blue Cross coverage, with deductibles of $200 for an individual and $400 for family coverage, or managed-care plans that limit their choices of doctors. 
 A growing number of employers across the country offer some type of medical savings plan, like the one in Jersey City, and the plans are finding support on Capitol Hill, especially among Republicans, who have introduced legislation to make the accounts tax-exempt. Supporters say these plans can slow health spending because consumers hesitate to use their own money for care they may not need.
Jersey City has saved $22,000 because the insurance premiums are lower for the high-deductible policies for the 97 employees in the plan. But those employees have to pay income tax on the money put into their medical savings accounts by their employer, which adds to their expenses, even if they use the money for medical care. If they use little or no medical care, they will save money, compared with more traditional insurance coverage; if they have many medical expenses, they will lose money.
While some employers put liberal amounts into medical savings plans for employees, other employers, especially small companies, provide only high-deductible insurance and a smaller contribution, or nothing, leaving employees to pay most bills on their own.
Critics say the main winners when medical savings plans are adopted are the insurance companies that sell the high-deductible insurance policies to small businesses that cannot afford either insurance with lower deductibles or health maintenance organizations and other types of managed health care. The medical savings plans mainly attract healthy customers who cost insurers little or nothing, the critics add.
"As a single person and in reasonable good health, it's not a bad program," Ms. Holloway said. She said she would sign up again if the city offered the accounts next year, "unless some other health problems arose between now and December."
But Tom DeGise, the Jersey City Council President, has two young children and predictable medical costs, so he decided against the savings account. "I would go through the deductible rather quickly," he said. Under current tax law, he is more likely to save money by choosing the conventional health plan, even though he pays 20 percent of his medical fees under that plan.
The concept of medical savings accounts has been endorsed by Speaker Newt Gingrich and Bob Dole, the Senate majority leader. Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and 105 co-sponsors, including 11 Democrats, have introduced a tax measure that would encourage the accounts.
Under the Archer bill, money that employers or employees put into the accounts would not be taxed, and employees could leave unspent money in their accounts for future medical needs or nursing home insurance. Employees would be taxed on the unspent money only if they withdrew it for nonmedical uses.
That would make the savings accounts different from the health benefits called flexible plans, offered by many big employers. In flexible plans, an employee can put part of his or her paycheck into an account held by the employer for a selection of benefits, including health care. The money is not taxed but the employee can lose money if not all of it is spent because the balance goes to the employer at the end of the year.
The Archer bill could make medical savings plans more attractive by allowing employees to carry unspent money in medical savings plans over to the next year. A Senate version is expected after the recess.
Congressional budget cutters are also considering the accounts as an option in revising Medicare, but experts say the added costs to the Treasury could be enormous if elderly people used the plans to pocket the cash until they needed care, leaving only the sickest patients under conventional Medicare.
The Clinton Administration has not taken a final position, said Chris Jennings, the President's special assistant for health policy. The accounts raise "significant questions" that should be considered in Congressional hearings, he said.
Supporters say the legislation would make the lower-cost, high-deductible insurance more attractive for millions of people with little or no coverage. But economists say many small employers would not be so generous as Jersey City. Some companies might cover half, or less than half, of a $2,000 deductible policy. If some version of the Archer bill is adopted, many small businesses may simply offer employees the opportunity to finance the tax-exempt accounts out of their own wages.
Dr. Stuart Altman, a health care economist at Brandeis University, said the medical savings accounts "would break apart the insurance market, and millions of middle-class people would not be able to find affordable health care." He said older people and others with high medical costs would have to pay even more for conventional insurance as younger, healthier people switched to the savings accounts because the current rates for conventional insurance are based on spreading costs across large numbers of both sick and healthy people.
Most individuals with conventional coverage would save $400 to $600 a year under a medical savings plan, depending on how much the employer put into the accounts and what Congress decides about their tax status, the American Academy of Actuaries, a professional group, said in May. But costs would rise for the one person in four whose expenses consumed all or most of the deductible.
For the 8 percent with the highest medical expenses, the actuaries said, the added costs would be a steep $800 to $900 a year, on average.
Large employers fear that the medical savings plans would drive up their costs by siphoning off healthy employees and disrupting managed-care networks, like health maintenance organizations. Younger people would go for the chance to get the cash, they say, and might postpone needed medical services.
"Common sense tells you that the young, healthy people would go into the medical savings accounts," said Susan Shackson, senior director of public policy at the Ford Motor Company, which spent $1.4 billion on health benefits last year.
Ford, a self-insured company with generous benefits, would expect to contribute the entire deductible for these people, who now cost the company very little. "Ten percent of the population accounts for 70 percent of the medical costs, and 30 to 40 percent don't cost anything," said Charlie Pryde, a governmental affairs executive with Ford.
"Today, they are just part of the risk pool, lowering our average costs," Ms. Shackson said. "Tomorrow, you could have extra costs."
Members of the National Federation of Independent Business, most of them small companies, strongly supported tax-free status for medical savings accounts in a survey last year; 58 percent were in favor, 22 percent opposed and 20 percent undecided.
But managed-care companies say it would be unfair to give special tax breaks to people choosing high-deductible insurance. "We believe all insurance products should be treated similarly from a tax perspective," said Art Lifson, a vice president in Washington with the Cigna Corporation, a major health insurer.
Mr. Archer's bill, which would give tax advantages to savings accounts tied to high-deductible insurance, would cost the Treasury $2 billion over seven years in lost revenue, the Joint Committee on Taxation said.
Another concern was voiced by Dr. Donald Parsons, a Washington spokesman for Kaiser Permanente, the California-based health maintenance organization. He said the savings accounts "undermine the opportunity for early treatment" that may catch potentially costly diseases because people would delay treatment until symptoms were severe and expensive to treat.
But James Rodgers, an economist with the American Medical Association, which supports the accounts, said doctors did not think that people would skimp on most essential care because they were spending their own money.
The Council on Affordable Health Insurance, which is supported by insurance companies that specialize in high-deductible policies for individuals and small businesses, is campaigning for Federal tax concessions for medical savings accounts. The council's leading backer, the Golden Rule Insurance Company, based in Indianapolis, is headed by J. Patrick Rooney, a former Republican candidate for Governor of Indiana, who has donated extensively to Mr. Gingrich's political action committees and television shows.
Concord Management, a Golden Rule customer in Grand Rapids, Mich., switched from conventional Blue Cross coverage to medical savings accounts in 1993. It provided $2,000 for each employee's account, fully covering an insurance policy with a $2,000 deductible. "We've been very happy; people got money back," said Randy Velting, a partner with Concord, a nine-person real estate firm. "But I don't think anyone has had a catastrophic medical problem" that would wipe out the saving, he said. "We know there is no free lunch."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: JERSEY CITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: JERSEY CITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); JERSEY CITY, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SAVINGS ACCOUNTS; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); CITIES (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INSURANCE POLICIES (74%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); CHILDREN (72%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); INSURANCE LAW (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (68%); TAX LAW (65%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (65%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT BILL ARCHER (66%); MELISSA HOLLOWAY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



557 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: States Improve in Warning Consumers About Polluted Fish

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 28

 BODY:
The number of warnings issued by state health authorities against eating fish caught in polluted waters increased 20 percent in the Government's fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, 1994, according to a survey published today by the Environmental Protection Agency.
While the increase has continued to rise, agency officials said it did not necessarily suggest that water quality was worsening, but rather that state agencies were doing a better job of detecting problems and informing the public. 
 The warnings apply to fish caught by recreational anglers and others who fish for their own food. They are issued by state health authorities when local fish are thought to be tainted by toxic substances that concentrate in the flesh of fish.
The survey also found that the warnings now cover more than 1 in every 25 miles of rivers and 1 in every 7 acres of lakes.
In a speech today to the American Fisheries Society in Tampa, Fla., the Administrator of the E.P.A., Carol M. Browner, said the warnings covered about 125,000 miles of rivers.
"Here in Florida, every inch of coastline carries a warning, plus 80 inland water bodies and the entire Everglades," she said.
Ms. Browner said the survey showed that water pollution problems were far from solved. Measures supported by the Republican leadership in Congress to amend the Clean Water Act and other environmental laws, to cut her agency's budget and to restrict its enforcement powers would only make matters worse, she said.
"The recreational fishing industry is worth $24 billion a year," Ms. Browner said. "Contaminated fish are bad for the economy."
Fish contamination is thought to be of special concern to pregnant women, to children and to people who eat higher than normal amounts of fish, including American Indians and people who depend heavily on fish they catch as a source of food.
The Federal Government does not issue health warnings for noncommercial sources of fish, but advises the states on how to gather and interpret information on contamination.
The survey collected all the public health warnings in force in 46 states. Although all 46 states except Idaho had issued warnings in previous years, last year the warnings included more bodies of water.
Nine states have now issued broad advisories that affect not just one body of water, but waters all over their state: Florida, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York and Vermont.
But statewide warnings do not necessarily mean that fish throughout the state should not be eaten. In New York, for example, people are advised to limit consumption to half a pound a week of fish taken from any freshwater body in the state, including the Hudson River and New York Harbor.
Most warnings across the country were related to mercury contamination, mainly because of air pollution from coal-burning power plants, industrial sites and incinerators. Other warnings were because of polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCB's; the pesticides chlordane and DDT as well as about 25 other chemicals.
In an unusual approach, the E.P.A. did not release the complete survey in printed form, but instead distributed it on five computer disks that allow statistics and maps to be generated by categories like fish species, state or pollutant. Although the disks are free to the public, they will be useful primarily to researchers and organizations. Most individuals can more easily obtain information about fishing in local waters from state health departments.
The agency also plans to make the information available on the Internet.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); AMERICAN FISHERIES SOCIETY (56%); AMERICAN FISHERIES SOCIETY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); AMERICAN FISHERIES SOCIETY (56%); AMERICAN FISHERIES SOCIETY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FOOD CONTAMINATION AND POISONING WATER POLLUTION (92%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); WATER QUALITY (90%); RIVERS (89%); SPORT FISHING (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (89%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (78%); FISHERIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (74%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); NATIVE AMERICANS (68%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (63%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (60%); POWER PLANTS (60%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (59%); 

PERSON: CAROL BROWNER (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



558 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Stephen Goldfeld, 55, Professor; Was Chief Economic Forecaster

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE VAN GELDER 

 BODY:
Stephen M. Goldfeld, a Princeton University professor and former provost who served on the Council of Economic Advisers during the Carter Administration, died on Friday at his home in Princeton Township, N.J. Dr. Goldfeld was 55.
The cause of death was cancer, said Jacquelyn Savani, a spokeswoman for the university. 
 An expert on financial institutions and econometrics, a heavily mathematical branch of economics involving statistical analysis, Dr. Goldfeld was 39 when he was named chief forecaster on the President's three-member council in 1980.
When Dr. Goldfeld took a leave from Princeton and arcane economic concepts to go to Washington, he had been a full professor for 10 years and had been a senior staff economist with the council in 1966 and 1967.
"The only hard part of forecasting is doing it when things are in great disarray," he said after joining the Carter Administration. "Since I've come, things have seemed as if we knew what was going on."
The next year, after Jimmy Carter was defeated by Ronald Reagan, Dr. Goldfeld returned to Princeton. He was chairman of the economics department from 1981 to 1985 and again from 1990 to 1993, when he was named provost, a post he held until the end of June.
Besides being a visiting faculty member at Catholic University of Louvain in Belgium, the University of California at Berkeley and the Technion in Haifa, Israel, Dr. Goldfeld was also on the National Commission for Employment Policy, a consultant to the Federal Reserve Board and a member and senior adviser of the Brookings Institution and its panel on economic activity.
Dr. Goldfeld was associate editor of American Economic Review and five other major economic journals. He also wrote several books, among them "Commercial Bank Behavior and Economic Activity" (1966) and, with R. E. Quandt, "Nonlinear Methods in Econometrics" (1971), both published by North-Holland Publishing Company; and, with L. V. Chandler, "The Economics of Money and Banking," published in 1981 by Harper & Row.
Dr. Goldfeld was born in the Bronx. A mathematics major, he received a bachelor of arts degree from Harvard University in 1960 and his doctorate in economics three years later from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. That year, he joined the Princeton faculty. Three years later, at the age of 26, he was granted tenure, and in 1969 was promoted to full professor.
Dr. Goldfeld is survived by his wife, Laura; a son, Keith, of Manhattan; a daughter, Melanie, of Berkeley, Calif.; and his mother, Ethel Yurman of Deerfield Beach, Fla.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen M. Goldfeld (The New York Times,1980)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); BELGIUM (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (63%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); BELGIUM (54%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLISHING (86%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); 

PERSON: GOLDFELD, STEPHEN; VAN GELDER, LAWRENCE JIMMY CARTER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



559 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Bernard Rifkin, 84, Union Leader and Educator

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Bernard Rifkin, a union leader and an educator who helped create the country's first fully accredited labor college, died on Friday at his home in lower Manhattan. He was 84.
Mr. Rifkin retired in 1976 as a director of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, Council 37, A.F.L.-C.I.O. District 37, a nationwide organization based in New York. 
 At District 37, he began a high-school equivalency program in 1968 and went on to organize the School of New Resources, DC 37 campus, for the College of New Rochelle in 1972. The first union-operated college, it offers four-year degrees in subjects like communications, management and labor studies. Union members are offered the chance to complete their college studies with evening and weekend courses.
Mr. Rifkin, who was born in Brooklyn, was associated with several unions as an organizer and top official, including the United Automobile Workers, which he joined in 1953. He was educational director of that union's eastern region and became a close associate of Walter P. Reuther, who headed the U.A.W.
In the 1960's, he was a labor adviser to the United States Agency for International Development. During his stint abroad with the A.I.D., he helped train workers in unionism. He was arranging for the construction of two schools at a tin-mining camp in the interior of Bolivia in 1963 when he and a group of other foreigners and Bolivian technicians were caught in a confrontation between Communist miners and the Government of President Victor Paz Estenssoro. They were kidnapped and held for 11 days before being released unharmed.
With his wife of 58 years, the former Susan Levins, Mr. Rifkin wrote "The American Labor Source Book" (McGraw-Hill, 1979), a hefty compendium of labor history, various unions and a broad range of other subjects concerning labor-management relations.
In addition to his wife, Mr. Rifkin is survived by two sons, Erik of Baltimore and Paul of Falmouth, Mass.; a daughter, Karen Rifkin of Ukiah, Calif., and four grandchildren.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFL-CIO (58%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (58%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (58%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); ACCREDITATION (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (77%); COUNTIES (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); MINES & MINING (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); TIN MINING (65%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (56%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, BERNARD; SAXON, WOLFGANG BERNARD RIFKIN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



560 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: US Air Cuts Fares In Line With Rivals

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., Aug. 28

 BODY:
US Air Group said today that it was cutting fares as much as 58 percent from nondiscounted econony prices, responding to moves by the Northwest Airlines Corporation and Continental Airlines Inc.
US Air, based in Arlington, is discounting flights to more than 7,500 destinations in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean. 
 With the markdown, travelers flying, for example, between Charlotte, N.C., and Denver, for example, can save as much as $397.
In most markets, tickets must be bought by Friday and will require a Friday-night stay and seven-day advance purchase. In other markets, discounted tickets can be bought until Sept. 15 and will require a Saturday night stay and 14-day advance notice. All travel must be completed by Dec. 15.
On Sunday, Northwest and Continental announced fare cuts as great as 50 percent on travel in the United States and to some foreign cities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (93%); LCC (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: USAIR GROUP INC; NORTHWEST AIRLINES CORP; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES INC UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (93%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); US AIR GROUP (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: USAIR GROUP INC; NORTHWEST AIRLINES CORP; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES INC US AIR GROUP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) AIRLINES (92%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); AIR FARES (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



561 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Leaky Boats on the Rising Tide

BYLINE: By Steven Rattner; Steven Rattner is a managing director of Lazard Freres & Company, investment bankers.

 BODY:
It's time to move on from the debate about whether income distribution in America is becoming more unequal. Countless studies have confirmed the greatest imbalance of earnings in decades. What we need is a partnership between Government and businesses that can attack the problem not by bringing down the rich but by lifting the rest of Americans.
Since 1973, annual earnings of the bottom 10 percent of workers have dropped by 24 percent (after adjustment for inflation), while those of the top 20 percent have increased by 10 percent. As a result, the United States -- the great egalitarian society -- has the widest income disparity of any modern democratic nation. 
And the problem has gotten worse over the last four years, a period during which more than seven million jobs were created and inflation and interest rates remained low. The average worker's wage dropped 2.3 percent (in real terms) during the fiscal year that ended March 31.
No one should doubt the risks of stagnant incomes and greater inequality. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said recently that the trend toward greater income disparity could be "a major threat to our society." Sustained economic growth can't occur without rising personal incomes to support consumer purchases. Can it be a coincidence that the last great period of income inequality -- the 1920's -- ended with the Great Depression?
The diminishing standard of living for many breeds resentment over issues like affirmative action and immigration. And conflict also grows between workers and bosses when a chief executive makes 150 times the average worker's salary (up from 35 times in 1974, as reported by Business Week).
With all these social and economic pressures, the current political instability -- rampant anti-incumbent sentiment and talk of third parties and independent candidates -- can hardly be surprising.
To reduce the income gap, we must do something about its source: the mismatch between the skills of the work force and the jobs that are available. Recent job creation has occurred mostly in the highly skilled, professional and managerial areas; but too few workers are being prepared for such jobs. And even these jobs are at risk, since corporations are increasingly hiring educated workers overseas who will work for less.
As a result, for all but a highly skilled few, workers simply don't command the leverage they used to, particularly since the companies they work for face stiffer global competition. Thus, although worker productivity has been rising -- the key ingredient for increased future incomes -- the fruits of the recovery have been shoring up the bottom line rather than reaching workers.
Take the case of American Airlines, whose Transport Workers Union agreed this month to trade wage increases for job and pay protection. For the next three years, 27,000 employees, from mechanics to meteorologists, will receive no across-the-board pay increases. For the three years after that, they will receive only minimal increases. In addition, the airline will be able to hire new workers for less-skilled jobs at lower wages.
The same week came the report of the fate of 800 workers in West Virginia, forced to take lower-paying jobs when Maytag closed a vending-machine plant and opened a new, lower-wage factory in South Carolina.
Some workers are beginning to adjust to the new economy. The growing wage disparity and scarcity of good jobs has already encouraged young Americans to pursue more education. But Government also has a role to play in easing the oversupply of workers competing for low-skilled jobs. That means education initiatives that embrace the market. One such approach would be to offer corporations tax incentives to encourage more training.
Training by employers, however, is not enough; many employers train very narrowly for the job immediately at hand. This can limit a worker's flexibility rather than enhance it. To avoid this pitfall, the Clinton Administration has put forth two creative proposals. First, families making less than $120,000 a year would be permitted to deduct up to $10,000 a year for education and training costs. The Administration would also replace some 70 Federal jobs programs with a voucher system that would pay up to $2,620 a year for up to two years to allow workers the flexibility to get training where the jobs are.
In a period of anti-government backlash, these ideas should be greeted with enthusiasm. But Congressional Republicans have ignored the issue. Indeed, their proposals, essentially huge cuts in everything, would worsen matters. While proposals like the Administration's aren't the only solution, we need to give them a try. It's fine for the rich to get richer. It's not fine for everyone else to get poorer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (66%); INTEREST RATES (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: RATTNER, STEVEN ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); STEVEN RATTNER (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



562 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Why Not Unions to Combat Sweatshops?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "How an American Industry Gets Away With Slave Labor" (Week in Review, Aug. 20):
It is disturbing that a published interview with Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich on exploitation of workers makes no mention of the most effective remedy for mistreatment: strong unions. Empirical evidence confirms that nonunion workers are more likely to endure sweatshop conditions than are union members. In 1994, for example, union members' earnings were 37 percent higher than for unrepresented workers. 
 While Mr. Reich mentions the Fair Labor Standards Act as one weapon against worker exploitation, the National Labor Relations Act has historically been the most valuable tool. Passed in 1935, it established the legal right of private-sector workers to organize unions. Its supporters argued that the inequality of bargaining power between employers and unorganized employees substantially burdened the flow of commerce by depressing wage rates and the purchasing power of wage earners.
The act endorsed unionization: "It is hereby declared to be the policy of the United States to eliminate . . . obstructions to the free flow of commerce . . . by encouraging the practice . . . of collective bargaining."
Two years after its passage, the N.L.R.A.'s constitutionality was upheld by the Supreme Court. Then, Chief Justice Charles E. Hughes wrote: "Long ago we stated the reason for labor organizations. We said that they were organized out of the necessities of the situation; that a single employee was helpless in dealing with an employer; . . . that if the employer refused to pay him the wages he thought fair, he was nevertheless unable to leave the employ and resist arbitrary and unfair treatment; [the] union was essential to give laborers opportunity to deal on an equality with their employer."
In the years that followed, millions of workers organized and lifted themselves out of sweatshop conditions. In 1945 unionization peaked at 35.5 percent of the work force. From 1950 to 1960, average weekly earnings rose 23 percent. This was the largest sustained rise in living standards in the 20th century and occurred in the only decade when union density remained above 30 percent.
After unionization dipped below 30 percent in 1962, wages rose more slowly. As union density continued to fall, from 1972 to 1995, workers' earnings declined steadily and, to our nation's shame, slave labor has re-emerged in our economy.
That any published conversation on sweatshops, especially with a United States Labor Secretary, can make no mention of labor unions is incredible. Worker exploitation is not insoluble. Renewing our commitment to collective bargaining is a first step.
 
JEFFREY GRABELSKY
Senior Extension Associate
New York State School of Industrial
and Labor Relations, Cornell
New York, Aug. 21, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; LABOR; SWEATSHOPS GARMENT WORKERS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SWEATSHOPS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); 

PERSON: GRABELSKY, JEFFREY ROBERT B REICH (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



563 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Banks Say Loan Demand Is Up Sharply

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 28

 BODY:
Demand for consumer loans and mortgages grew sharply in the last three months, and banks made it easier for businesses to borrow, the Government said today.
The Federal Reserve said a survey of lending officers at 83 banks found that credit demand by businesses increased moderately in contrast with a marked rise in consumer loan applications. 
 Continuing a trend begun last year, banks eased standards for commercial and industrial loans, the survey showed. In contrast, lenders said only a few banks were willing to ease terms for consumer installment loans.
The Fed reported three weeks ago that consumer credit grew for the 25th straight month in June, but the rate of increase was the slowest since February.
In today's report, one-fourth of the banks surveyed said that demand for consumer installment loans grew, and half said demand for home mortgages had increased since the last survey in May.
"Banks had indicated a decline in demand for loans in both of these categories in the past two surveys," the Fed said.
There has been little change in standards for approving business loans but a continued easing of loan terms, the survey showed. Fewer than 10 percent of the banks questioned said they had lowered standards for commercial and industrial loans to large companies, and even fewer indicated they had eased standards for small and midsized companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (78%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); TRENDS (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



564 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: A Sleeping Arts Giant Reawakens

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING 

DATELINE: NORTH ADAMS, Mass., Aug. 26

 BODY:
Dancers twisted and looped like parts of a giant machine on a stage set up in a courtyard that was once the parking lot of the Sprague Electric Company, until the early 1980's the major industry in this sturdy but economically depressed old mill town in the Northern Berkshires.
A dancer, also a part of the performance, pushed fabric back and forth through an old sewing machine on a stage covered with a sea of billowing white material not far from the abandoned factory buildings where more than a century ago mill workers printed cotton. Another dancer quietly sang a familiar old union song, coaxing an audience of about 400 artists, former factory workers and families to join in. 
 The singing rose a little uncertainly through the waning afternoon light, the dancers' moving bodies reflected on windows in the low, sprawling brick buildings surrounding the parking yard. Looking closely, one could see embedded in the grimy interior windowsills the artifacts of a once-healthy economy, bits of colored wire and blue ceramic beads that were used for the electronic parts the plant made.
The sleeping behemoth known as the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art, or Mass Moca for short, a huge arts complex intended in part to revitalize the local economy, was reawakening.
The project has nearly died four times in its nine years, the victim of state and art-world politics and changing economic priorities. But in April Massachusetts released $18.6 million to start construction, which is expected to be completed in 1997 or early 1998 at a cost of $26 million. And on Wednesday Mass Moca is to take title to the property, donated by a subsidiary of the Penn Central Railroad, its last owner. Renovation has just begun on several of the 28 buildings in the 13-acre factory complex, which has not been used since 1985. More than a quarter of the available 500,000 square feet will be renovated in the first phase, for which Mass Moca has raised the remaining $8 million.
The concert, a children's workshop and a sampling of new and recent dance by the Everett Dance Theater on Saturday afternoon was the first co-production of Mass Moca and the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, one of eight partners in the complex. On Sept. 23, a performance by the Band will inaugurate the Night Shift Cafe. It is the creation of Mort Cooperman, who founded the Lone Star Cafe in Manhattan, and it plans to present American music, including blues, jazz, and country-and-western, and produce videos and recordings throughout the complex.
"It's finally going to happen," John Barrett 3d, the Mayor of North Adams, said. "This project has had more lives than a cat. A lot of peaks and valleys, but mostly valleys. It's amazing that we're still here."
The Sprague plant was the economic heart and life of North Adams, employing about a fifth of the city's population of 20,000, as was the mill it replaced. The earliest buildings date from 1875, when Arnold Print Works opened a factory to print and dye raw cotton. The factory closed in 1917, and Sprague arrived in the 1930's. Part of the first stage of creating Mass Moca has been compiling the workers' histories in interviews by museum officials and members of the Everett Dance Company.
City residents are excited, said Sandra Burton, a choreographer from New York City who moved to the area 12 years ago and is the coordinator of the dance department at Williams College. "I've sat on the bus from Boston to North Adams and listened to the people who ride that bus and who talk with such excitement about Mass Moca," Ms. Burton said. "People who are not artists. They feel it will open up the region in ways we've needed."
It was Mayor Barrett who suggested the sprawling complex to Thomas Krens, who was then director of the Williams College Art Museum, for a museum of contemporary artworks too large for most New York City museums. Mr. Krens, now director of the Guggenheim Museum, envisioned a hotel and convention center, shops, restaurants and condominiums at the site. State and city officials saw the project as revitalizing a depressed area. "The city leadership of North Adams realized that the days of the single-plant, one-company town were over," Joseph Thompson, the director of Mass Moca, said. "There were no I.B.M.'s, no paper clip manufacturers to come in."
A $35 million state bond issue to help finance Mass Moca was approved in 1988 by the state legislature. But some questioned (and continue to question) whether the complex, first scheduled to open in 1992, could draw enough money and people to survive in a city that is about three hours from New York and Boston and one hour from Tanglewood and Jacob's Pillow.
The money was frozen in 1991 by the new Governor, William F. Weld, who said the project relied too heavily on government support and gave museum officials a year to raise nearly $12 million privately. The museum did not meet that goal and extensions were granted with the understanding that a new plan for the site would be developed. In 1993, Mass Moca announced it would become a multi-disciplinary cultural center with galleries, performance and rehearsal spaces, studios for artists and production facilities. The first phase of construction is expected to provide 65,000 square feet of exhibition space and 25,000 square feet each for theater, for sound, film and multimedia production and post-production facilities, and for other film and multimedia projects.
An early player in the new plan was Sam Miller, a former director of Jacob's Pillow, which will have a sound and production stage. The Guggenheim, an even earlier partner, will lend artworks.
The Kleiser-Walczak Construction Company of Hollywood, which produces computer-generated special effects, will install a studio for new product development. And 501C3, a research and development organization in New York that focuses on multimedia products and on-line programs, will have its headquarters, a lab and a training facility at Mass Moca.
"This could be an artistic center that would enable dancers and other artists to get in at the beginning of new technology rather than take what technology has handed out," said Sali Ann Kriegsman, the current director of Jacob's Pillow. "This might be a chance for artists to sit down and work together and find out how technology can serve them."
The exhibition and theater spaces will be used by the four other partners: the Japanese American Cultural and Community Center of Los Angeles, the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute of Williamstown, the Lucien Aigner Trust and the American History Workshop in Brooklyn.
The handsome brick buildings are linked at their corners or by covered-bridge-like walkways, creating the sense of a ghostly, mazelike city. "The buildings themselves are noble," Mr. Thompson said, "and the raw interior spaces have the sense of scale and proportion and sort of toughness, even, that we intend to preserve as much as possible."
An informal outdoor movie theater will occupy one courtyard, with a screen covering one side of a building. Floors will be removed in the first two buildings to be renovated to create spaces as high as 38 feet and as long as football fields for exhibitions, performances or film production.
The architects are Bruner/Cott, a mill-restoration firm in Cambridge, Mass., and Frank Gehry of Los Angeles and Robert Venturi of Philadelphia. Spaces will open to artists as the renovation of each building is completed. But the Mass Moca site was used even before Saturday's performance.
Last fall, 200 members of the New England Artists' Trust, a regional organization of artists in all media, had its annual meeting there. Writers and performers, painters and sculptors spilled out into raw spaces in buildings throughout the complex to work and talk and get to know each other better. "People did installations," Ms. Burton recalled. "I taught a workshop. We had lunch in different spaces. It was wonderful. We used the space."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Everett Dance Theater performed on Saturday at the factory complex the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art is renovating. (Alan E. Solomon for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART; EVERETT DANCE THEATER SPRAGUE ELECTRIC CO TANTALUM CAPACITATOR DIV (60%); MASS MOCA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART; EVERETT DANCE THEATER MASS MOCA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH ADAMS (MASS); UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE FACTORY WORKERS (90%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (79%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); FAMILY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (75%); MUSIC (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (74%); FILM (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); COTTON FABRICS (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (64%); 

PERSON: DUNNING, JENNIFER

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



565 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 29, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: Budget Cuts Seen By Science Group As Very Harmful For U.S. Research

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE 

 BODY:
FEDERAL financing of nonmilitary scientific research in the United States will decline by one-third within seven years, the American Association for the Advancement of Science says in a report to be released today. It warns that "the long-term effects of dismantling a coherent scientific enterprise could be very harmful."
The study projects financing trends through the year 2002, based on the budget resolution passed by Congress on June 29 and on subsequent actions by the House and Senate in drafting appropriations bills for the fiscal year 1996. Deep projected reductions in the support of research and development, in some cases 100 percent, represent "the most significant across-the-board funding cuts to the research-and-development enterprise in the post-World War II era," the authors of the report wrote. 
 The A.A.A.S., a professional society with more than 140,000 individual members, is the largest scientific federation in the world and tracks the financing of American science every year. Dr. Albert H. Teich, who directs the association's division of science and policy programs, said in an interview that "what we're trying to do is call people's attention to the implications of present trends."
The current drive in Congress toward deficit reduction and a balanced budget by 2002 is strongly supported by new members of Congress whose election platforms called for sweeping cutbacks in Government spending.
The budget cuts will affect science unevenly. Money appropriated for the National Science Foundation may decline only a few percent in 1996, and the National Institutes of Health may actually get an increase of more than 6 percent. But some major programs of NASA, the United States Geological Survey and the National Institute of Standards and Technology face extinction, and the overall trend in Federal support of science alarms many scientists.
Scientific groups are worried that the era of generous treatment from Congress may be waning. "For many years," Dr. Teich said, "we had a protective umbrella of members of Congress who understood science, were sympathetic toward it and were associated with it. But now we have an awful lot of new people in Congress who don't have any connection with science. It's up to the scientific community to try to reach them."
Many scientists and research administrators acknowledge that Federal belt-tightening has made cuts in research support inevitable. But they believe that Congress has been moving too hastily and without adequate consultation with experts.
An important factor in the trend, besides the need to cut Federal spending across the board, has been the conclusion of the cold war, which, Dr. Teich said, had "provided a geopolitical situation in which political-military power was strongly associated with a nation's scientific and technological prowess." With a decline in the perceived need to maintain that prowess, he said, science has lost political support.
Among the fields in which the association expects the sharpest reductions are research on environmental issues, fusion-energy development, atmospheric and geological problems, unmanned space programs and research assistance to industry. For 1996, research funds for Federal agencies, other than the Defense Department, have been reduced in Congressional appropriations bills by more than 5 percent. The National Institutes of Health was the only major Federal agency granted a budget increase, of 6.2 percent, but it was included in a bill that President Clinton might veto for other reasons.
Some Federal departments and the research they support may not survive the next few years. The Commerce Department has been made a target for elimination by many Congressmen, leading to uncertainty about the future of two of its major research agencies, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
NOAA investigates changes in global climate, like the possible greenhouse warming of the planet caused by gaseous emissions of human industry and the so-called ozone hole, a thinning of the atmosphere's protective ozone layer believed to have been caused by the release of chlorofluorocarbon compounds. NOAA faces a probable reduction in 1996 of 14.1 percent in money for its operations, research and facilities, the science association says.
At the National Institute of Standards and Technology (formerly the National Bureau of Standards), Congress has already eliminated the Advanced Technology Program, a $466.5 million undertaking to assist private industry in the development of technology.
In a recent speech, Dr. Arati Prabhakar, the institute's director, said that "if the current Congress has its way, it will turn the clock back 20 years and put technological innovation on the shelf."
Republican leaders in Congress, however, have argued that Federal subsidies for research conducted to benefit private industry are unnecessary, and that industry should pay for its own research.
The biggest expected dollar reduction in 1996 Federal support for science is the $716.5 million that the House has voted to pare from NASA's $9.5 billion budget. A major share of that reduction would come from Mission to Planet Earth, a system for using satellites to track changes in the earth's ecosystems.
Another research casualty of the 1996 budget will be the Interior Department's Bureau of Mines, for which Congress has provided no money at all. The bureau, which this year is spending $102 million, studies mine safety and supervises the helium-conservation program under which some of this irreplaceable gas, separated from the natural gas with which it is mixed, is stored in underground caverns.
Faced with so-called rescissions, or cuts in money previously appropriated by Congress for the present year, as well as the further cuts expected for 1996, many Federal research groups have begun dismissing scientists and other employees.
For example, the United States Geological Survey, founded in 1879 as part of the Interior Department, has been forced to truncate one of its three main programs, its geology program, which was created to explore and map the nation's geological resources.
"We have reached the point," said Donovan B. Kelly, spokesman for the agency, "at which there is no longer enough money after fixed expenses are paid to support field research in geology. We therefore have to make deep cuts. Nationwide, about 500 employees of the program will be separated by mid-October, and another 200 will be downgraded or transferred to other jobs. It's really hard doing this, when you know the names and faces of the people leaving -- people who were highly trained to do special jobs on behalf of the nation, and who are now being cast off."
Mr. Kelly said he hoped the geological survey's international earthquake network would be preserved. The network links seismographic instruments operated by about 120 countries with the survey's network, giving participating nations timely information about all earthquakes and greatly broadening the data base on which seismological research depends.
High-energy physics research suffered a devastating blow last year when Congress, charging mismanagement, cut off funds for the $10 billion superconducting supercollider, a proton accelerator that would have made the United States the world's leader in the field until well into the next century. Leadership is now expected to pass to Europe after the turn of the century, as a consortium of nations completes the Large Hadron Collider near Geneva. Many American physicists hope to find work there.
Another branch of physics, which holds out the hope of developing hydrogen fusion as a cheap, nonpolluting, renewable source of energy, is expected to suffer a serious reduction of financing in 1996. House action calls for a reduction of 36.4 percent in the budget for magnetic confinement fusion, whose main beneficiary is the experimental Tokamak reactor at the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory in New Jersey.
Dr. Ronald C. Davidson, director of the laboratory, said in an interview that if only $229 million of the requested $366 million budget for the laboratory was granted, as Congressional appropriations committees have done, it would be impossible to build a new-generation experimental reactor, the Tokamak Physics Experiment.
Another major fusion experiment, in which microscopic pellets filled with hydrogen isotopes are bombarded by intense lasers, is in progress at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California, which is operated by the University of California for the Department of Energy. But this, too, faces an uncertain future.
Many of Livermore's projects, including the development of nuclear weapons, are directed and paid for by the Defense Department, which provides the laboratory with a traditionally reliable financing pipeline. Defense Department research is not included in the overall research cuts that Congress has been making, and the House Appropriations Committee has set a 4.2 percent increase in military research and development for 1996, bringing financing to $36.7 billion.
Officials of the A.A.A.S. said the association's gloomy new report was not a prediction, merely a projection.
"Between now and 2002 a lot of things could happen," Dr. Teich said. "We could get another President and a different Congress, or we could have a war, or a recession. Lots of things could change. But what worries scientists is the Congressional resolution enacted in June, which is a broad statement of where Congress wants us to be in 2002. It's not a vision that bodes well for the health of American science."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 8, 1995, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on Aug. 29 about the expected effects of Congressional budget reductions on research misstated the role of the Defense Department in the development of nuclear weapons at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. The Defense Department benefits from the programs, but they are directed and paid for by the defense programs division of the Energy Department.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Albert W. Teich directed budget study for the A.A.A.S. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (54%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (97%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; RESEARCH; ENVIRONMENT; PHYSICS ; WEATHER; SPACE BUDGETS (93%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TRENDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (68%); WRITERS (68%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, MALCOLM W; TEICH, ALBERT W (DR) ALBERT H TEICH (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1995



566 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Time Warner Offering $8.5 Billion for Turner
Time Warner was said to be offering $8.5 billion to acquire Turner Broadcasting System, but Turner has not decided whether to accept the offer. An executive close to the discussions said that Ted Turner was "enthusiastic" about folding his company into Time Warner.
Under the terms of the proposed deal, Time Warner would purchase the 81 percent of Turner that it does not already own. Shareholders of Turner would receive seven-tenths to eight- tenths of a share in Time Warner in return for each of their shares in Turner. [Page A1.]
 
Time Warner was said to have agreed with Toshiba and Itochu to restructure their investments in its cable systems and movie studio. The Japanese companies will swap their 11.2 percent stake in Time Warner Entertainment for preferred shares in the parent company. [D3.]
 
Mutual Stock Funds Attracted Record $12.4 Billion in July
Investors poured more money into mutual funds that invest in American stocks last month than ever before, and the trend in August appears to be as good or better. The Investment Company Institute, a mutual fund trade group, reported that investors put a net $12.4 billion into equity funds that invest primarily in American stocks in July, up 57 percent from June. The July figures smashed the record of $10.2 billion, set in March 1993. Market Place. [A1.]
 
L'Oreal in Boycott Settlement
L'Oreal agreed to pay $1.4 million to settle a long-running investigation into charges that it violated American laws against cooperating with the Arab economic boycott of Israel. The settlement is the second largest in the 17-year history of the American anti-boycott law. [D2.]
 
Honda Civic Meets Smog Standard
Honda said its new Civic subcompact model met emissions requirements set by California for 1997, making it the first gasoline-powered, mass-production car to do so. [D2.]
 
Dow Rises in Mixed Market
The stock market recovered from an early selloff in technology issues, and blue-chip stocks rallied. The Dow industrials rose 14.44 points, to 4,608.44, but the Nasdaq composite index lost 4.51 points, to 1,003.64. [D6.]
 
Pulling the Plug on a Port?
New York's harbor, one of the nation's premier ports, has lost much of its business to docks on the New Jersey side. City planning experts are asking whether New York would be better off if it let some or all of its commercial shipping business die. [B1.]
 
Self Magazine Editor Quits
Alexandra D. Penney, the fervent and mercurial editor in chief of Self magazine since 1989, again resigned. The announcement comes 13 months after Ms. Penney quit, then returned a week later. She will stay until a successor is named. [D16.]
 
Speeding Up Your Passport
Travelers often experience long lines when applying for a visa or a passport, but a number of companies will navigate these regulatory minefields for individual travelers. Most companies' standard services include processing passports, visas and documents for business transactions that require approval from the State Department and foreign consular offices. Business Travel. [D16.]
 
Putting Fizz in Wine Ads
In a campaign by the Balet & Albert agency, Food and Wines from France is emulating soft-drink marketers like Pepsi-Cola in presenting emotional, life-style-tinged messages. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D3.]

GRAPHIC: Table: "YESTERDAY"

Dow industrials	4,608.44	+14.44	30-yr. Treasury yield	6.71%	+0.01	The dollar	98.21 yen	+1.44	
 
Chart: "TODAY"
 
Gross Domestic Product
 Revised 2d-quarter figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.4%
 
Seagram Company
 2d-quarter earnings due during the day.
 Expected: 31 cents a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: OR (PAR) (93%); OR (BIT) (93%); TOS (LSE) (56%); 6502 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (93%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); JAPAN (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: L'OREAL SA (93%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (58%); TOSHIBA CORP (56%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (55%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (55%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); JAPAN (76%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); PREFERRED STOCK (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); TRENDS (72%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (69%); BOYCOTTS (69%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); MARINE SHIPPING (64%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (64%); AIR QUALITY (62%); SMOG (62%); 

PERSON: TED TURNER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995



567 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Port in a Storm: Planners Question the City's Maritime Future

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
Government agencies have spent hundreds of millions of dollars in recent years to subsidize the depressed maritime industry in New York City, once one of the premier ports in the world. But now the city's own planning experts are asking for the first time whether the city would be better off if it let some or all of its commercial shipping business just die.
The marine terminals of New York have been eclipsed since the 1960's by those on the New Jersey side of the harbor, which are better equipped for modern shipping because they have more land and easier access to railways and highways. Government-owned terminals in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Staten Island have been unable to keep up, losing $40 million annually in the last two years, with little prospect of breaking even in the near future. 
 Given the scarcity of government dollars, the City Planning Department said in a report, New York City should examine whether those subsidies, and the land where the terminals are located, should instead be used for other transportation projects or for other ventures. Those might include factories, office complexes and recreation areas, officials said.
"The current approach of continuing to do what has been done in the past is expensive and, more importantly, not working," the report said. "Serious questions need to be answered about the ability of these facilities to meet the shipping needs of the next century."
That recommendation is the latest attempt to shape the discussion about the future of New York City's once-prosperous waterfront, an expanse of rotting piers, abandoned factories and unrealized potential.
But it appears to put the Planning Department at odds with city policy over the last decade, which has been to insure that New Jersey, with 93 percent of the harbor's trade, does not get all of it.
Though the Planning Department merely called for a debate about the terminals and their costs, and did not say that the city should close any of them, the report has nonetheless angered some Giuliani administration officials, local politicians and terminal operators in the city.
"I am furious," said Sal F. Catucci, chief executive of American Stevedoring, which manages the Red Hook Container Terminal in Brooklyn. "You have a bunch of morons who don't know what they are talking about, who have never had a business of their own. If they don't have a port on this side of the river, this city is going to be a ghost town."
Mr. Catucci and others say they cannot understand how the Planning Department could express such doubts only months after the city and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates most of the city's marine terminals, had spent tens of millions of dollars to reopen the Howland Hook Marine Terminal on Staten Island.
Though it was released last week, the recommendation attracted little notice at first because it was buried in a report that was put together to buttress the Giuliani administration's contention that the Port Authority was biased toward New Jersey and must be reorganized.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani cited the report last week when he fired the first shot in a border war with New Jersey, saying the Port Authority should raise the fare on the Port Authority Trans-Hudson, or PATH, commuter railway and the tolls on its bridges and tunnels in order to give more revenue to the city.
Though the Mayor focused on how much the PATH loses annually -- about $200 million -- he failed to note that the report also questions whether the losses on the marine terminals in New York City should be allowed to mount. The major terminals run by the Port Authority in New Jersey turn a collective profit, the Planning Department said. It is not clear where Mr. Giuliani stands on the terminals, but senior administration officials said the report was privately denounced by the city's Economic Development Corporation, which oversees the terminals.
The report said that after some study, the city and the authority might still conclude that the losses were justified or might decide that new investments should be made. But the city and the authority should also determine "whether there are other uses for the marine terminals that would make more economic sense," the report said.
In an interview, Joseph B. Rose, director of the Planning Department and chairman of the City Planning Commission, emphasized that he was not calling for the shutting of the terminals. And he said the recommendations about the terminals had to be seen as part of an overall assessment of the Port Authority, which was the purpose of the report.
All the Port Authority's money-losing ventures, including the PATH line and the Port Authority Bus Terminal, should be scrutinized, he said.
"A lot of the marine investments have to be re-evaluated, in the same way that you re-evaluate the PATH and the industrial parks, and the World Trade Center," Mr. Rose said. "Are these investments and these subsidies operating in such a way that they have the benefit that they were intended to have?"
Mr. Rose also said he thought Howland Hook had more potential than the other terminals, particularly those in Brooklyn, many of which have not had tenants for years.
Peter Yerkes, a spokesman for the Port Authority, declined to comment yesterday on the report, but officials outside the Giuliani administration have not been reticent.
Representative Jerrold L. Nadler, a Democratic whose district includes parts of Manhattan and Brooklyn, sent a letter to Mr. Giuliani in which he praised the Mayor for attacking the Port Authority but also criticized the report's assertions about the marine terminals.
Mr. Nadler, a proponent of building a large containerized shipping port in Brooklyn, told Mr. Giuliani that the city should not give up on its maritime industry.
"Rather than precipitously concluding (as the city planning report seems to do) that these terminals should be closed, there should be a public discussion of whether subsidies to these terminals make sense," Mr. Nadler wrote. "If such a debate were to take place, I am confident that the conclusion would be reached that some of these facilities (particularly those along the Brooklyn waterfront) could be made profitable."


GRAPHIC: Marine terminals in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Staten Island have been unable to keep up with New Jersey competitors in commercial shipping, losing millions of dollars a year. Here is a breakdown of net operating losses.
 
Brooklyn Marine Terminal
Graph: "THE BOTTOM LINE: Operating at a Loss"
 1993 -- $10,013,000
 1994 -- $12,327,000
 
Red Hook Container Terminal
 1993 -- $4,123,000
 1994 -- $5,040,000
 
Manhattan Passenger Terminal
 1993 -- $15,696,000
 1994 -- $9,129,000
 
Howland Hook Marine Terminal
 1993 -- $6,119,000
 1994 -- $7,756,000
 
South Brooklyn Marine Terminal
 1993 -- $6 million*
 1994 -- $4 million*
 
*estimate
 
Sources: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; New York City Economic Development Commission.(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%); PORT AUTHORITY (94%); CITY PLANNING DEPARTMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY (94%); CITY PLANNING DEPARTMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: PORTS; SHIPS AND SHIPPING MARINE SHIPPING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (79%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); CITIES (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J RUDOLPH W GIULIANI (66%); HOWLAND HOOK MARINE TERMINAL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995



568 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Surprising Rise In Immigration Stirs Up Debate

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29

 BODY:
The Census Bureau's report this week that the percentage of the country's population that is foreign born is at its highest level since World War II and is accelerating at a record pace has taken demographers aback and is fueling an already intense debate over immigration in American life.
The surprising figures result in part from a declining birth rate among native-born Americans, but more from increased immigration. The proportion of Americans who were born elsewhere rose to 8.7 percent last year, or 22.6 million people, according to the Census Bureau. The bureau estimated that about four million of the immigrants were in the United States illegally. 
 The proportion of immigrants is the highest since 1940, when it was 8.8 percent, although it remains far short of the modern historic high of 14.7 percent in 1910. Since 1970, the percentage has doubled. From 1990 to 1994, 4.5 million immigrants came to the United States, nearly as many as landed during the entire decade of the 1970's.
Though it is written in the flat prose of Government demographic reports, the study, "The Foreign Born Population: 1994" is sure to add to the debate over immigration, which has already emerged as a hot issue in the Presidential race. The issue is particularly incendiary in populous states like California and New York, the two whose populations contain the highest proportion of foreign-born residents. According to the report, nearly 25 percent of California's population and 16 percent of New York's were born outside the United States.
In New Jersey, 13.5 percent of residents were born outside the United States. The report did not provide figures for Connecticut.
Although the United States is a nation that has been largely built by successive waves of immigration, the rising number of immigrants has been the subject of an increasingly bitter debate in recent years. Proposed laws, and ballot initiatives like Proposition 187 in California, have sought to limit the influx of immigrants or to cut them off from a variety of Government benefits.
But despite the widespread attention given to the subject, demographers interviewed today said they were surprised by the large number of recent immigrants, both legal and illegal, turned up in the bureau's study.
"It's a very high percentage," said Jeffrey Passel, director of the Program for Research on Immigration Policy at the Urban Institute, a nonprofit research organization in Washington. He found especially striking the fact that about one in five arrived in the last five years. "That's much higher than numbers we've had historically, going back 20, 30, 40, 100 years," he said.
Even before the latest census report, which noted a quickening pace of immigration, the Urban Institute projected that if current trends continued, the proportion of foreign-born residents would gradually reach 13 percent or 14 percent within the next 50 years.
The bureau's findings are based on a nationwide survey of 60,000 households that asked individuals where they were born. As such, the estimate includes legal immigrants, refugees, illegal aliens, as well as students and tourists whose visas have expired.
"Legal and illegal immigrants, refugees, tourists and student visa overstays, we don't ask," said Kristin Hansen, a demographer with the bureau who compiled the study. "It's just anybody who was in our sample who said they were foreign born. I'm sure that those numbers contain some illegals. How many, I have no idea."
The bureau did not survey residents in dormitory settings, like farm labor camps, military barracks, colleges or prisons. As a result, some experts say the bureau may be underestimating the actual number of foreign-born residents.
Historians, economists, social scientists and advocates for tightened controls on immigration say the rising proportion of foreign-born residents could have striking effects on the country's economic, social and political environment.
"It bodes an accelerating public debate about the role of immigration at this point in our history," said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group pressing for a moratorium on immigration.
Past waves of immigration helped fuel the ranks of xenophobic, and sometimes violent, groups like the Know-Nothings in the 19th century and the Ku Klux Klan in the 1920's. While, in comparison to the activities of those groups, there has been little organized violence against immigrants, the issue of whether to curtail immigration is certain to be a major issue in the coming Presidential campaign and in Congress.
Bills have already been introduced to deny public assistance to legal immigrants or to make their sponsors financially responsible for them, to streamline deportation of undocumented workers, to crack down on alien smuggling, to end the automatic granting of asylum to Cuban refugees and to beef up the Border Patrol.
Two candidates for the Republican Presidential nomination, Gov. Pete Wilson of California and Patrick J. Buchanan, the columnist, were strong supporters of a successful ballot initiative last year that denied Government assistance to illegal immigrants. Both have made stemming immigration a central focus of their campaigns.
According to the report, the vast majority of foreign-born residents are from Mexico, followed by the Philippines, Cuba, El Salvador, Canada, Germany and China.
Experts say the surge in the number of foreign born people mainly stemmed from the 1965 Immigration Act, which replaced a policy based on quotas for various countries with one that allowed relatives of recent immigrants easier entry into the country. As a result, immigration increased to about 600,000 a year during the 1970's and 1980's.
A new law enacted in 1990 which maintained the policy of family reunification and also gave immigrants with more education and skills a higher priority further increased the numbers to about 800,000 a year.
In addition, a 1986 law provided amnesty to illegal immigrants, allowing them to qualify for citizenship.
The Census Bureau study provides some ammunition to both sides of the immigration debate. It indicates that 20.9 percent of recent immigrants over the age of 25 have bachelor's degrees, compared with 14.7 percent of native-born Americans. Paradoxically, 36 percent of recent immigrants over 25 years old did not finish high school, compared with 17 percent of those born in the United States.
The report also noted that 5.7 percent of recent immigrants have received public assistance, most notably Aid to Families With Dependent Children. That compares with 2.9 percent of native-born Americans, a fact certain to be seized upon by those seeking to curtail immigration.
"These figures clearly show we cannot continue what we have been doing indefinitely," Mr. Stein said. "The question is will we have good, solid sensible reforms now, or radical and extreme proposals down the line."
But Mr. Passel argued that studies conducted by the Urban Institute indicated that the bulk of foreign-born residents receiving public assistance were refugees who had fled political turmoil and arrived in the United States with very little means of support. If refugees are removed from the equation, Mr. Passel said, the percentage of foreign born people receiving public assistance is comparable with native-born Americans.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Rising Number Of Immigrants" shows percentage of the U.S. population that is foreign born from 1900 to 1994. (Source: Census Bureau)(pg. A15)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU DIRECTV (92%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); US CENSUS BUREAU (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS IMMIGRATION (96%); CENSUS (91%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); REFUGEES (78%); TRENDS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); BALLOTS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); REFERENDUMS (61%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995



569 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 2; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Productivity-Geared Study Gives U.S. Schools Poor Marks

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29

 BODY:
The United States does not get its money's worth from the $285 billion a year it spends on education, a panel of productivity experts concluded today.
The panel, the Consortium on Productivity in the Schools, took three years to examine the nation's network of 84,000 public schools as it would a business, focusing on productivity and return. 
 Its report, "Using What We Have to Get the Schools We Need," found a lack of quality control, of investment in research, of defined goals and of accountability, as well as many levels of restrictions and mandates that limit teacher innovation. The report called for greater autonomy for teachers and principals, financial incentives to reward good schools and better evaluation of reforms.
"This report is telling us in no uncertain terms that improving our schools will only happen if we have clear goals and keep from jumping from fad to fad," Education Secretary Richard W. Riley said in a statement.
The Consortium on Productivity in the Schools was formed in 1992 by the Institute of Education and the Economy at Teachers College of Columbia University. It was financed by the G. Victor and Margaret D. Ball Foundation, Citicorp and the Robert and Terri Cohn Family Foundation, and was made up of nine experts on productivity and systems analysis from the fields of industry, health, finance, government and education.
Its chairwoman, Sue E. Berryman, senior education specialist at the World Bank, said efforts to improve education had failed because they had been fragmented, designed to overhaul only parts of the system and not the system as a whole.
The panel called for possible performance contracts, like those used in Hartford, Baltimore and other cities that contract with for-profit companies to run their schools. It also urged succinct performance criteria for "all major functions of the system, not merely teaching and learning." And it said that districts should be permitted to open new schools outside existing bureaucracies and that parents should be able to choose among them. Currently, 81 percent of American children have no choice in school assignment, 11 percent do, and 8 percent are enrolled in private school.
The panel, following a similar recommendation from the American Federation of Teachers, also called for a national examination that all high school students would be required to pass to earn a diploma. And it called for better accounting in everything from the way textbooks are bought to the way teachers are paid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (54%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CONSORTIUM ON PRODUCTIVITY IN THE SCHOOLS CITIGROUP INC (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSORTIUM ON PRODUCTIVITY IN THE SCHOOLS COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (54%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRODUCTIVITY; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); PARENTING (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); QUALITY CONTROL (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN PIERRET (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995



570 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: John Costello, 52, Who Wrote Of War, Espionage and Mores

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
John Costello, a Scottish-born historian who shed new light on aspects of World War II and helped to untangle the webs of cold war intrigue, died on Saturday while on a flight from London to Miami. He was 52 and lived in Miami and Manhattan.
His New York agent, John Hawkins, said the exact cause of death awaited further tests. He said Mr. Costello was in Britain to do research and had suffered from shellfish poisoning a few days earlier. 
 The subjects of Mr. Costello's dozen books ranged from the war in the Atlantic and Pacific to Anglo-American mores, code-making and code-breaking, and counterintelligence. They were peopled with heroes and villains and moles, Winston Churchill and Rudolf Hess, the treasonous Cambridge cabal and one of the century's master spies, Aleksandr Orlov.
He had an earlier career as a documentary film maker and believed that a historian should bring not only thorough research to his writing, but "color, light, action" as well.
When the Soviet Union collapsed he became the first Westerner to see K.G.B. data for historical use. The upshoot was "Deadly Illusions" (Crown, 1993), written with Oleg Tsarev, a former K.G.B. colonel.
It was the story of Aleksandr Orlov, Stalin's top spy and the highest-ranking Soviet intelligence officer ever to go into hiding in the West. He was the Soviet contact for the Cambridge espionage ring of H. A. R. (Kim) Philby, Donald Maclean, Guy Burgess, Anthony Blunt and the still-mysterious "fifth man."
When he made his break in 1938, he not so much defected but sought refuge from Stalinist purges. In fact, when he finally "cooperated" with United States agents, he failed to mention the Cambridge ring or to identify the scores of other Westerners he had recruited or handled -- spies who continued to inflict damage for decades to come.
"Mask of Treachery" (Morrow, 1988) dealt with Blunt, the royal curator of paintings who was stripped of his knighthood but never disclosed the full extent of his treachery. The book also accused the British of deceiving the Americans about just how much the K.G.B. had riddled British intelligence.
"Ten Days of Destiny" (Morrow, 1991) covered Britain's wartime appeasers and one of the most puzzling incidents of World War II, the solo flight of Rudolf Hess, Hitler's deputy, to Scotland in May 1941.
His "Virtue Under Fire" (Little, Brown, 1986) examined how prewar morality had been battered in the United States and Britain with a rise in underage sin. The author ascribed it to hedonism in the shadow of death.
John Edward Costello was born in Greenock, near Glasgow, and graduated in law and Soviet economic history from Cambridge. He worked as a writer and as a director and scriptwriter for BBC documentaries in London before he became an author of books.
Mr. Costello is survived by his parents, John and Pattie Suzanne Costello of Newbury, Berkshire, England; a brother, Bryan, and sister, Susan Costello, both of England.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Costello (Stak, 1988)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); SCOTLAND (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: K G B (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: K G B (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); SCOTLAND (88%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); ESPIONAGE (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); COLD WAR (90%); HISTORY (90%); WRITERS (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); TREASON (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); RANKINGS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); 

PERSON: COSTELLO, JOHN; SAXON, WOLFGANG JOHN ALOYSIUS COSTELLO (96%); JOHN BLAIR HAWKINS (58%); WALTER RICHARD RUDOLF 'RUDOLF' HESS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995



571 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Free Cable TV in Omaha

BYLINE: By Dow Jones 

 BODY:
Basic cable television service at low rates has become increasingly common, but Cox Communications Inc. is apparently the first company to provide it for nothing. The company, based in Atlanta, is offering a basic package of 21 channels to subscribers in Omaha, with no monthly fee. The only charge is an installation fee of $19.95. A Cox Communications spokesman, David Andersen, said the company knew of no other free cable packages in the United States. An analyst at Oppenheimer & Company, Alan S. Gould, said the package, which offers premium channels for a fee, made economic sense for Cox Communications, a subsidiary of Cox Enterprises Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COX (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (94%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (71%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (92%); 

CITY: OMAHA, NE, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COX COMMUNICATIONS INC COX COMMUNICATIONS INC (94%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (71%); COX ENTERPRISES INC (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: COX COMMUNICATIONS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA (NEB); UNITED STATES (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); OMAHA, NE, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CABLE TELEVISION CABLE TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (88%); PARENT COMPANIES (85%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995



572 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: Where the Budget Ax Turns Dull

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29

 BODY:
This was supposed to be the Lizzie Borden of Congresses, the one whose fiscal broadax would whack away at friend and foe alike in the name of a balanced budget. And in some spots, what remains of Government programs is a gruesome sight indeed.
But eight months into the budget-slicing, the bleeding by corporate America seems to be not a great deal more than from your average shaving cut. Of the $1 trillion that Republicans have pledged to slice from the budget by 2002, say experts at the right-leaning Cato Institute, Federal programs that subsidize business are so far contributing perhaps $75 billion -- and that figure is dropping fast. 
 Toss in a bundle of new corporate tax breaks that Congress intends to pass, say experts from the political left like Ralph Nader's group Public Citizen, and businesses may even emerge from the fiscal blood bath with a net gain.
Those numbers could change drastically, of course, with a few Presidential vetoes or even a hairline crack in Republican resolve. The House and Senate have yet to send a single major spending bill to President Clinton, and the biggest bill of all -- the one that would cut taxes, social programs and programs like farm subsidies -- has yet to be written.
Even so, critics say, the same Congress that believes welfare saps the spirit and dulls the will of people seems to have concluded that business cannot compete without it.
Examples abound. What many critics regard as one of the most egregious Government handouts is the Agriculture Department's market promotion program, which gives cash to American companies -- and in some cases foreign ones -- to advertise and sell everything from Big Macs to mink pelts. This program actually won a 29 percent increase in its budget.
And although the Republican-controlled House condemns handouts to technology companies, it provided about $6 million for logging roads that timber companies use to reach remote stands of trees. Research and development programs in the Energy Department, which benefit a number of companies, had been scheduled to lose two-thirds of their $442 million budget, but lost merely $62 million in the House.
"Right now I'd say business is getting off very lightly," said Stephen Moore, Cato's director of fiscal policy studies.
Robert Greenstein, a former Clinton Administration official who heads the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, wholly agrees. "The rhetoric was about a new kind of budget-cutting," he said. "The reality was the same old seamy stuff -- the constituents with power are still working behind the scenes, exerting it."
Many in the business world would dispute all this. If programs that aid business are being cut less than programs that aid people, that is partly because aid to business is comparatively tiny, said Bruce Josten, a senior vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce.
Just how much money is involved here? The numbers vary widely. Congress's own budget office reckons that direct Federal aid to business -- part of what it dispassionately calls "financial support" -- totals $30.1 billion in the 1995 fiscal year. Corporate tax breaks are harder to quantify, but both the budget office and Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation say the total might reach $60 billion.
Mr. Nader's group pegs corporate welfare at precisely $167.2 billion. The Cato Institute discounts all but the most blatant tax breaks and so employs a smaller figure.
Mr. Greenstein's group is relying on Congress's estimate. And it will soon release a report that concludes that the current mix of tax cuts and spending cuts will prove "basically a wash" for business.
If so, that is a far different outcome from what the new Congress advertised when it took control of the budget process in the spring.
As Republicans depicted the situation then, business would assume a reasonable share of the budget-balancing load. The May issue of the party's official magazine devoted two pages to a dissection of corporate welfare, and the straight-arrow chairmen of both the Senate and House Budget Committees took pains to warn that no one would be exempt from the budget knife.
"Everything's on the table," the House panel's chairman, Representative John R. Kasich of Ohio, said last spring.
Mr. Kasich, one of Congress's most ardent deficit-fighters, had singled out some $15 billion in corporate subsidies for extinction, and sought to close an additional $25 billion in tax loopholes. And some business-friendly programs on his list have in fact been carved up.
Both the House and Senate agreed in principle to shut down the $4-billion-a-year Commerce Department and move its 36,000 workers and salvageable units, like the National Weather Service, to other agencies. Both have voted to end research into a gas-turbine helium reactor, a $2.6 billion program that experts have called unworkable and critics contend is a gift to the nuclear power industry.
Agriculture Department subsidies for wheat and other crops, many of which go to well-off farmers and corporations, could shrink by as much as $9 billion over the next five years. Most experts say the subsidies distort the food market and often limit production rather than expand it.
The House voted to abolish the Technology Reinvestment Program, a $500-million-a-year effort to help companies convert military technology to commercial use. It also zeroed out the Advanced Technology Program, a $350-million-a-year unit of the Commerce Department that gives businesses seed money for research in any of 11 fields deemed especially promising.
Both programs have the distinction of being Administration favorites; the President had wanted to raise the Advanced Technology budget to $490 million next year. But House Republicans label this as industrial policy and say the companies -- some of them giants -- would spend their own money if the Government did not offer a handout.
The trouble, the critics say, is that that philosophy is not applied consistently. "I think the Republicans genuinely want to balance the budget," Jill Lancelot, director of Congressional affairs for a spending watchdog, the National Taxpayers Union, said in an interview last week. "But the special interests continue to get handouts from the Federal Government, and that's what's disturbing, and sad, and discouraging. This was supposed to be a new day."
As an example of this inconsistency, the Senate has voted to give $238 million next year to the same technology reinvestment program the House has condemned. And it may be poised to restore part of the Advanced Technology Program's funds as well.
The House preserved the Overseas Private Investment Corporation and the Export-Import Bank, agencies that use loan guarantees and other devices to encourage American companies to expand their markets abroad. And instead of abolishing the Economic Development Administration, a $450-million-a-year grant-making agency whose aim is to attract industry but that is derided by many as a warehouse of political pork, the House voted merely to trim its budget by $102 million.
An unlikely alliance that included Friends of the Earth, the Heritage Foundation, Ralph Nader, the National Taxpayers Union and the teamsters' union fought to scrap the $85.5-million-a-year market promotion program, and instead saw its budget increased to $100 million. The victors were an equally unlikely alliance of rural Democrats and conservative Republicans, many of them from states with industries and food companies that get the grants.
"To cut a program like that, which is working to increase our exports, would be a very radical move," argued Senator Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat with important constituencies in the wine, fruit and nuts businesses.
She was joined by Senator Thad Cochran, a conservative Republican from Mississippi, who said that the Government was merely encouraging McDonald's to peddle American poultry and eggs in places like Singapore when it subsidized the company's advertising abroad.
Republican budget-cutters like Mr. Kasich, who hope to make up some of the lost savings by tightening business tax breaks, may be disappointed. The tax bill passed by the House in April not only leaves current loopholes intact, but also awards impressive new tax advantages to businesses, such as a cut in the capital gains rate to 25 percent and allowing depreciation on equipment that would exceed the amount paid for the equipment.
Mr. Greenstein of the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities estimates that the business tax provisions already approved by the House would cost the Government $51 billion in lost revenue over seven years. An added $195 billion in breaks and lower rates would go to individuals.
Mr. Moore of the Cato Institute said he agreed that some corporate tax breaks were little more than handouts and he cited tax benefits that are given only to producers of methanol as one example. But breaks awarded to all of corporate America, like the depreciation provisions in the House tax bill, are less subsidies than they are changes in fiscal policy, he contended.
He also suggested that those quick to attack the new rulers on Capitol Hill should first look backward.
"I'm the first person to criticize Republicans for their lack of fortitude in cutting corporate welfare," he said, but then acknowledged that "the Democrats ran this place for 40 years, and never cut these programs."
"And it's true on the tax side as well," he added. "Who do we think created these loopholes? This is a bipartisan problem."


GRAPHIC: Despite its tough talk about reducing budgets, Congress is expected to preserve most of the spending and policies that directly support business. Here are some examples:
 
DEFENSE DEPARTMENT
Charts: "Barely Nicked or Not Cut at All"
 The Pentagon is expected to get billions of dollars worth of weapons it did not request, in part because they provide work for an otherwise idle military industry.
 
ENERGY DEPARTMENT
 Research and development programs that had been set to lose two-thirds of their $442 million budget instead lost just $62 million in the House.
 
AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT
 Its market promotion program, which gives cash to companies to advertise and sell various products in foreign countries, won a 29 percent budget increase.
 
COMMERCE DEPARTMENT
 Instead of abolishing the Economic Development Administration, a $450-million-a-year grant-making agency, the House voted to trim its budget by $102 million.
 
INDEPENDENT AGENCIES
 The House preserved the Oversees Private Investment Corporation and the Export-Import Bank, agencies that help American companies expand their markets abroad.
 
TAX ADVANTAGES FOR BUSINESSES
 The Tax bill approved by the House offers a cut in the capital gains rate to 25 percent and allows depreciation on some equipment that would exceed the amount paid for the equipment. (pg. D1)
 
 
"Benefits for Business"
 The Federal Government is spending an estimated $30.1 billion this fiscal year in direct outlays that support business. Here are the top five:
 
Farm subsidies: The Commodity Credit Corporation, among other activities, helps farmers by setting mimimum price support levels for agricultural products. ($7.9 billion
 
Health care: The National Institutes of Health supports applied and clinical research in health-related fields. ($3.7 billion)
 
Energy: The Department of Energy benefits utilities and other energy providers by funding research and development in nuclear power, solar energy and other technologies. ($3.4 billion)
 
Soil conservation: Conservation Reserve Program protects farmers against erosion. ($1.9 billion)
 
High technology: The Pentagon provides money to companies working on technology with possible civilian applications. ($1.8 billion) (pg. D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (57%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%); CATO INSTITUTE (57%); CATO INSTITUTE (57%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (59%); CATO INSTITUTE (57%); CATO INSTITUTE (57%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); PUBLIC CITIZEN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS BUDGETS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); VETO (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (75%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (67%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL RALPH NADER (79%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995



573 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Issues Weaken In Line With Bond Futures

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities sagged yesterday in sympathy with bond future contracts, which came under pressure from increasing doubt about the chances of another Fed easing.
Traders said a Market News Service report appeared to have been behind the raised anxiety level of a few market participants. It suggested that Fed policymakers were increasingly confident that the economy was rebounding to an acceptable, noninflationary growth pace and were content to leave short-term interest rates unchanged unless they saw that demand would slacken. 
 However, bonds erased most of the day's losses in late afternoon when the Johnson Redbook survey of major retailers showed sales were off last week, removing some of the inflation fears.
Tony Crescenzi, director of fixed-income trading at Miller, Tabak, Hirsch & Company, a New York brokerage firm, said he was not surprised by the market's reaction to the report. "Because the market has been building in expectations for a rate cut, it is particularly vulnerable to reports showing strong data," he said.
The 30-year bond, which dropped as much as 11/32 in the session, closed down 4/32 in New York to a price of 10 25/32 to yield 6.71 percent, up from 6.70 percent on Monday.
The September Treasury bond futures contract, which has acted as the primer to recent gains in the cash market held above its early lows after new United States data, but remains below Monday's high of 112 28/32. However, some traders suggest this key technical level could be retested in the days ahead, much as it was on Monday.
While the data released yesterday provided little direction for investors, it did give them something to think about. July new-home sales were at an annual rate of 715,000 units and close to expectations, with sales up four-tenths of 1 percent. Analysts said the annual rate was close to economists' average forecast of 712,000 units.
Matthew F. Alexy, chief market strategist at CS First Boston, said the "headline figure hid significant weakness in the underlying details of the new-home sale report." He noted that aside from a 22.5 percent jump in sales in the South region, national sales outside that region plunged 14.9 percent.
The Conference Board's consumer confidence index for the month of August was a bit higher than expected. The overall number was reported at 101.0, down from a revised 101.4 in July but well above economists' forecasts of 100.5. The higher consumer confidence expectations gave some bond traders jitters, since a strong economy would mean no need for easing.
But Mr. Alexy said: "We attached very little significance to this morning's confidence data for two reasons. Confidence readings are not a leading indicator of consumer spending; they tend to be lagging indicators, or coincident at best.
"Also, with the exception of a strange one-month drop in June, the Conference Board's index has been moving sideways in a range of between 99.4 and 104.6, which leaves us near the middle of that range now."
On the technical side of trading, Robin Mesch, chief fixed-income analyst at Thomson Research, predicted the price of the September contract would go higher, with a probability of 113 21/32 -- 28/32. "I figure some consolidation will take place there, which will ultimately resolve to the upside to retest the high 114 27/32 to 115 range," Ms. Mesch said.
She expects some choppy trading in the quarter, and looking ahead to the fourth quarter, she said: "I think the market is setting up to roll over to the downside, but that will not happen until about the first quarter of next year. The market doesn't turn on a dime, turning a train around takes some time."
In the municipal market, yields were little changed. Some investors are encouraged by the drop in the supply of bonds this week at the same time funds are seeing an inflow of money.
With rates in the corporate market at a five-week low, some issuers are getting the jump on the expected pickup in sales after the Labor Day holiday, managers report.
Among the $1.55 billion of corporate issues in the market yesterday were the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae; the Nationsbank Corporation, the Champion International Corporation and Motorola Inc.
Traders said there was strong investor interest in the Nationsbank deal because of their long maturities. The $350 million of 20-year bonds were priced to yield 7.75 percent, or about 98 basis points -- nearly a full percentage point -- more than Treasury securities with a comparable maturity.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent, Yields for short-term maturities are shown an a bond equivalent basis. (Source: Tecnical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NB (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT MILLER TABAK HIRSCH & CO (70%); SEPTEMBER TREASURY (76%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT SEPTEMBER TREASURY (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); FUTURES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); NEW HOME SALES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); REAL ESTATE (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); INFLATION (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); RETAIL SALES (74%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); RETAILERS (70%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ROBIN MESCH (57%); MATTHEW F ALEXY (57%); JOHN MAJOR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995



574 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Regains Momentum While the Mark's Rally Sputters

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar strengthened yesterday as a rally in the German mark faded.
The dollar, bolstered by speculation that interest rates in both Germany and Japan might be reduced, rose to 1.4779 marks in late New York trading, from 1.4667 marks on Monday. It also surged to 98.21 Japanese yen from 96.77 yen. The British pound slipped to $1.5431 from $1.5497. 
 The recent rally in the dollar had been held back by an advance in the mark after the resignation of the French Finance Minister on Friday. But many analysts said the reaction to the departure of the minister, Alain Madelin, had been overdone, saying there would be little change in French economic policy as a result. Yesterday, the mark retreated against other European currencies.
The dollar's rise against the mark picked up steam after Hans-Jurgen Kobnick, president of the Bundesbank in Rhineland-Palatinate state, was quoted in a German newspaper as saying that German interest rates still had room to ease.
Bob Near, vice president at the Bank of New York, said, "In very quiet and thin markets, a little bit of talk went a long way in helping the dollar stay well bid on the day."
After a surprising half-point cut last Thursday in the official German discount rate, to 3.5 percent, a number of traders expect the Bundesbank to trim its securities repurchase rate today from the current 4.39 percent.
"There is a big concentration on the interest-rate differential between the United States and Germany," said Dave Glowacki, senior trader at NBD Bank in Detroit. "The market believes that as German rates drop and U.S. rates hold steady, that should point to some purchases of U.S. assets, which would lead to some purchases of U.S. dollars."
Lower yields in Germany would make dollar-based investments relatively more attractive.
Expectations about interest rates also helped lift the dollar against the yen. The dollar rose on news that the International Monetary Fund had again urged Tokyo to cut interest rates to help spur economic growth.
The Japanese economy has been hurt by a long-simmering banking crisis and a strong yen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: RHEINLAND-PFALZ, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (97%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); RHEINLAND-PFALZ, GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BRITISH POUND (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); BANK FAILURES (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995



575 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Prices for Copper Contracts Slip As Demand Hits a Seasonal Ebb

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Copper prices sagged yesterday as demand for the metal endured a seasonal slump.
On other markets, silver and wheat prices fell sharply. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodities fell 0.36 point, to 239.33. 
August shutdowns of copper fabrication plants in the United States and Europe typically result in a drop-off in demand, analysts said. But they forecast higher prices in the fourth quarter as consumption rises.
"Certainly, activity in the U.S. economy is going to pick up in the second half of the year versus hardly any growth in the second quarter, and that will help copper demand," David Rinehimer, an analyst at Smith Barney, said.
On the Commodity Exchange of New York, copper for September delivery dropped 2.25 cents, to $1.346 a pound on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
The drop followed a similar plunge in prices on the London Metal Exchange on indications of easing near-term supplies. The London exchange was closed on Monday for a holiday.
The September copper has dropped 6.5 percent from its Aug. 17 high of $1.434 a pound. Silver prices fell after signs of rising stockpiles eased concerns over tight supply. On the Commodity Exchange, the September silver contract fell 9.3 cents, to $5.519 an ounce.
Wheat prices fell sharply on the Chicago Board of Trade after the Agriculture Department reported that the spring wheat crop was in better shape than traders expected.
Wheat steepened its slide late in the session as speculators who bid prices up sharply last week took profits.
In a report released after trading ended on Monday, the Agriculture Department rated 54 percent of American spring wheat in good to excellent condition as of Sunday, down from 56 percent a week earlier.
"The deterioration of the spring wheat crop was not as bad as expected, given the amount of rain they've had," said Joel Karlin, research analyst with Kemper Securities Inc.
Excessive rain in the northern Plains has slowed the harvest and left wheat vulnerable to disease.
Wheat for September delivery fell 6.75 cents, to $4.34 a bushel.
Corn and soybean prices also fell, partly in reaction to better crop ratings than expected.
September corn slipped 1.5 cents, to $2.9025 a bushel, while September soybeans dropped 2 cents, to $6.0375 a bushel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (92%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); COPPER INDUSTRY (91%); COPPER MARKETS (91%); FUTURES (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); WHEAT FARMING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (86%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COPPER SMELTING & REFINING (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995



576 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: A China Agenda for Mrs. Clinton

 BODY:
It was never realistic to think that Hillary Rodham Clinton could lead the American delegation to the Beijing women's conference without becoming entangled in the difficult relationship between the United States and China. Once her visit was linked last week to the release of Harry Wu, the connection became undeniable. But that should not stop Mrs. Clinton from going to China to make herself and her country heard as champions of women's needs and rights.
The challenge for Mrs. Clinton is to advance the cause of women without seeming to bless China's repressive treatment of its own citizens by her presence. She can manage that if she is fearless in her defense of women throughout the world, including China, and makes clear that she does not condone the clumsy steps taken by the Chinese authorities to suppress dissent outside the conference halls. 
 The great advantage of having Mrs. Clinton lead the United States delegation is the added attention and articulate voice she will bring to the official American agenda for the conference. The people chosen to represent this country -- including members of both parties -- have been instructed by the Clinton Administration to raise issues like violence against women, improved access to education and health care and the promotion of greater political and economic equality. Neither those goals nor the overall themes of the conference fit the extremist image conjured up by some critics of the gathering, like Senators Bob Dole and Phil Gramm.
The United Nations holds these women's conferences only once every 10 years. For the tens of thousands of women who attend them, and the millions more they represent back home, particularly in the less developed world, the meetings provide much-needed encouragement and a spur to local action.
Women's rights are human rights, so there can be no question of keeping human rights off the agenda, however much the subject discomforts the Chinese hosts. China is not the worst offender against women's rights. But it is home to one-fifth of the world's women, and the problems of women there cannot be ignored, including abusive population policies, like forced abortion and sterilization.
Beijing's leaders wanted the prestige of being host to the conference, especially after the humiliation of losing their bid to stage the 2000 Olympics. They have proved unable, however, to tolerate the public demonstrations and clash of views that go with an international meeting like this.
Regrettably, China has exiled nongovernmental delegations to the women's conference to a remote site 40 miles from Beijing, held back visas for unofficial participants and reporters and rounded up Chinese political activists in advance of the conference.
Mrs. Clinton has an obligation to express her country's contempt for these steps, while registering its strong support for the goals of the conference. China's leaders may not appreciate that approach, but anything less from the leader of the United States delegation would be a betrayal of American principles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; FREEDOM OF SPEECH CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); OLYMPICS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (76%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); ABORTION (60%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); PHIL GRAMM (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995



577 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: The Nation's Biggest Bank

 BODY:
The marriage of Chase Manhattan Bank and Chemical Bank may well be a boon for the two banks and their stockholders. It means that a newly efficient and productive behemoth based in New York City will be better equipped to compete globally with the financial giants of Europe and Asia. But the $10 billion merger is also a sign of the decline of this region's fortunes as a financial-employment center, as Chase and Chemical proceed with plans to cut $1.5 billion a year in expenses by eliminating 4,000 jobs and perhaps 100 bank branches in the metropolitan area alone.
Mindful of the potential blow to the economy and consumers in New York City, executives at both banks have gone out of their way to offer assurances that they will try to ease the pain caused by the merger. They promise that the job reductions will be carried out by natural attrition and retirement incentives where possible. They also promise not to reduce services in poor areas of the city, some already underserved by big banks. 
 The promises are welcome but deserve to be met with some skepticism, since they have been made in other mergers in the past and not always carried out. The office of Mark Green, the city's Public Advocate, has performed useful research in recent years on the decline of banking services in poor neighborhoods as retail banking has shrunk in general. It would be salutary for Chase and Chemical to cooperate with his request that they disclose their plans for shutting down branches deemed redundant. New Yorkers will also be eager to learn what will happen to Chase Manhattan Plaza, and lower Manhattan real estate values generally, now that the bank's headquarters will be consolidated in midtown.
As for reinvestment in the communities they serve, both banks have good records. But here too, the public needs to keep a careful eye to make sure that future performance continues to serve all New Yorkers. Even those financial institutions that have achieved excellent records in meeting the needs of poor communities or in helping to finance development projects in marginal neighborhoods have done so only after strong public pressure.
The creation of the nation's largest bank continues a trend of consolidation that is going on throughout the country, not just in New York. The pace of change in recent years is startling, with tens of thousands of banking jobs disappearing in New York City since 1988. A major factor in the trend is that consumers are using other institutions for their financial needs, including mutual funds, insurance companies and credit cards.
The banks, meanwhile, have struggled because of problems of their own making, investing too heavily in such things as third-world loans and bad real estate schemes. The Chase Manhattan Bank has been allowed to keep its name after being absorbed in the Chemical deal, but it was the one looking for a partner after investors came to view its financial health as weak because of poor prospects for future growth. In combining forces, Chase and Chemical say their financial clout will be greater than the sum of their two parts. But for that to be true, the banks will have to make the combination work with better and more aggressive business management.
The merger's painful consequences for employment in the New York region are a reflection of the larger problems afflicting the American economy, which has grown more productive but performed disappointingly in terms of producing new jobs. One of the most urgent problems facing the country and New York City is to figure out how to let the financial giants achieve economic and productivity growth in a fashion that benefits workers as well as the wealthy who own the bulk of the nation's capital. Only then will everyone be entitled to join in the cheers of the shareholders when two financial giants merge and announce the cutting of thousands of jobs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANKING CORP; CHASE MANHATTAN CORP JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); CHEMICAL BANK (58%); NEW YORK GIANTS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEMICAL BANKING CORP; CHASE MANHATTAN CORP NEW YORK GIANTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKS AND BANKING; EDITORIALS; LABOR MERGERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CITIES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (63%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); 

PERSON: MARK GREEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995



578 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 30, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales Rise Briskly, Carried by Gains in the South

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 29

 BODY:
Sales of new homes rose at the fastest pace in a year during July, helped by low mortgage rates and signs of consumer confidence, a Government report showed today.
New-home sales rose four-tenths of 1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 715,000, the Commerce Department said. The gain was the third consecutive monthly rise and the strongest sales rate since March 1994, when sales were running at 722,000 a year. 
 But all of the increase in July occurred in the South, the nation's largest home market. Sales in the rest of the country declined from June, with sales in the Northeast plunging 33.3 percent.
Economists attributed the gain in home sales to mortgage rates that were significantly lower in July from the beginning of year and by signs that consumers were not becoming discouraged by the direction of the economy.
A stable consumer outlook was seen in a report today by the Conference Board, a private business-research group. The Conference Board's index of consumer confidence eased only slightly in August to 101.0 after a big bound in July to 101.4 when it jumped nearly seven points from June.
The index, using a 1985 base of 100, surveys 5,000 homes. It gauges opinions about the current and future state of the economy.
Economists were encouraged by the reports, noting the housing sector was rebounding from first-half weakness and that it appeared consumers did not lose heart during a second-quarter slump in economic growth.
A third report today from the Labor Department reinforced the favorable prices picture, showing that import prices took their biggest tumble in more than one and a half years, down six-tenths of 1 percent. The last time there was a bigger drop was December 1993, when they fell 1 percent.
Export prices gained three-tenths of 1 percent in July, meaning that companies selling their products abroad earned more.
Cheaper imported petroleum prices and less costly industrial supplies, or raw materials, were the main reason for the better performance on the import side.
"Taken together, the three reports carry the basic message that the consumer sector that we have been quite worried about seems to be in fairly good shape," said Robert Dederick, economic consultant to the Northern Trust Company in Chicago. "People are feeling well, they're willing to make large commitments, and inflation is not a problem."
While economic growth nearly stalled in the second quarter, sales of new homes jumped in May by 10.5 percent, to a rate of 671,000 a year,before gaining 6.1 percent in June and edging up another four-tenths of 1 percent last month.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "New-Home Sales" tracks new private homes sold during each month, at seasonally adjusted annual rate, from February 1994 through July 1995. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NORTHERN TRUST CORP (62%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES NEW HOME SALES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); IMPORT PRICES (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); EXPORT PRICES (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (64%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1995



579 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Time Warner and Turner Seeking to Please Malone
 Executives of Time Warner, Turner Broadcasting and Tele-Communications Inc. shuttled between New York hotel suites and conference rooms, as they worked on an $8.5 billion deal in which Time Warner would buy Turner. 
 In an attempt to satisfy John C. Malone, the chief executive of Tele-Communications, which owns 21 percent of Turner, people involved in the talks said that Tele-Communications was offered a mixture of voting and nonvoting shares in Time Warner. Turner stock rose $6.50, to $30.50. [Page A1.]
 Despite skepticism that the merger would work out, entertainment industry executives were matter-of-factly accepting that their environment was changing. [D4.]
 
Japan Closes Credit Union, As Banking Crisis Worsens
 Japanese Government authorities closed the Kizu Credit Cooperative in Osaka, the nation's largest credit union, and bailed out the Hyogo Bank in Kobe. The twin collapses are expected to wipe out Government rescue funds. [D3.]
The news strengthened the dollar, lifting it nearly one yen to 99.11 yen. [D13.]
 
ARCO Buys Stake in Lukoil
 Adopting an unusual strategy to gain a foothold in the Russian oil industry, ARCO said it had paid $250 million to buy a stake in Lukoil, Russia's largest private oil company. [D2.]
 
Acquisition by Boston Scientific
 Boston Scientific agreed to swap $500 million in stock for Heart Technology, which makes a device to reopen clogged arteries. [D5.]
 
Change at CS First Boston
 Seeking to bolster its mortgage- and asset-backed securities business, CS First Boston has hired Andrew D. Stone, the former head of the mortgage products business at Daiwa Securities America. He is replacing Craig S. Lipka, who resigned from the unit. [D6.]
 
Judge Rules Against Blue Cross
 A Federal judge has ruled that Blue Cross of Ohio improperly kept secret discounts that it obtained from hospitals, failing to pass savings along to customers whose policies required them to pay for a share of their care. [D2.]
 
Implant Settlement May Fail
 Lawyers failed to meet a court-imposed deadline for renegotiating a pending $4.23 billion settlement about silicone breast implants, raising the possibility that the agreement may collapse. [B12.]
 
Nasdaq Halts Losing Streak
 Stocks posted modest gains as the Nasdaq composite index ended a four-day losing streak, rising 8.97 points, to 1,012.61. The Dow industrials fell 3.87 points, to 4,604.57. [D6.]
 
Wanted: Olympic Sponsors
 Organizers of the Atlanta Olympics are struggling to raise their planned revenue -- $1.59 billion -- entirely from nongovernmental sources. As a key element, the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games had said it would get 40 to 50 corporate sponsors, but only 35 companies have signed on so far. Advertising. [D5.]
 
Blinder Undecided on Fed
 Alan Blinder, the Fed's vice chairman, said he had not decided whether to leave when his term expires early next year, but he did not deny reports that he was planning to return to teaching at Princeton University. [D17.]
 
Signal Seen on French Economy
 Economists say the ouster of France's Finance Minister, Alain Madelin, has sent a clear signal that President Jacques Chirac has chosen to let the deficit deepen to get people back to work. [D3.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "TODAY"
 
Factory Orders
 
July figures due at 10 A.M. Eastern.
Expected: -0.8%
 
Personal Income
 
July figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
Expected: +0.5%
 
Table: "YESTERDAY"

Dow industrials	4,604.57	-3.87	30-yr. Treasury yield	6.69%	-0.02	The dollar	99.11 yen	+0.90	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (91%); LKOH (RTS) (55%); LKOD (LSE) (55%); BSX (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (54%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (54%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); OSAKA, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (91%); OAO LUKOIL (55%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (54%); BLUE CROSS OF OHIO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BLUE CROSS OF OHIO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); OSAKA, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (88%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (86%); OLYMPICS (83%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MERGERS (75%); BANK FAILURES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); CURRENCIES (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); JUDGES (68%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (63%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (63%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



580 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

LAWYERS PREPARE FOR THE DEATH PENALTY
Dennis C. Vacco, the New York Attorney General, says his motives were pure when he sent prosecutors a letter saying he was ready to help them press the new death penalty. But while he is on standby for prosecutors, they may not be standing by for him. [Page A1.]
 
Governor Pataki announced that a prison near the Canadian border would house the state's death row, and that a Dutchess County prison would be the site of the executions. [B4.]
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
BUTCHER KILLED IN POSSIBLE MOB HIT
A 71-year-old Bronx butcher was shot to death and his brother was critically injured during a drive-by shooting that the police said appeared to be a mob hit. [B3.]
 
POLICE CRACK DOWN ON ILLEGAL CABS
Police officers and taxi inspectors cracking down on illegal cars for hire in Queensfound an elegant forgery, officials said. [B3.]
 
HARLEM DEVELOPMENT AGENCY IS CLOSED
The Pataki administration shut down the Harlem Urban Development Corporation, a semi-independent agency that used state and private financing to spur economic activity. [B3.]
 
DISPUTE ON CITY BUS ENDS IN SHOOTOUT
A dispute that began aboard a city bus in the Bronx ended in a blazing shootout when two fleeing passengers and pursuing police officers exchanged about a dozen shots. [B3.]
 
JUDGE SENDS STUDENTS TO ANTI-BIAS CLASS
The case against three students charged with harassing a teacher with an anti-Semitic note was dismissed on condition that they attend an anti-bias course and perform community service for Jewish organizations. [B5.]
 
THREAT OF TEACHER LAYOFFS EASES
The prospect of teacher layoffs this fall has diminished considerably, officials said. [B8.]
 
REGION
 
WIFE CHARGED IN THEFT OF ART
In 1984, O. Winston Link, a well-known photographer, married Conchita Mendoza at a symbolic spot in Green Cove, Va., that was the setting for several of his pictures. Now the lives of the couple, since divorced, have arrived at a less scenic but equally dramatic stop: a courthouse in Westchester County. [B6.]
 
KEAN DECIDES NOT TO RUN FOR SENATE
Saying Washington had become "mean-spirited," former Gov. Thomas H. Kean of New Jersey announced that he would not run for the Senate seat that Bill Bradley is giving up. [B6.]
 
PANEL BACKS MAJOR FIX-UP FOR ERIE CANAL
A New York State commission approved a $146 million plan to remake the Erie Canal into a 524-mile-long tourist attraction. [B7.]
 
EXOTIC BIRDS STOLEN FROM L.I. PET SHOPS
Thieves have stolen at least five exotic birds valued at more than $1,000 each from pet shops in Nassau County, the police said. [B9.]
 
INDICTMENT AWAITS MAN HELD IN JORDAN
A man who is serving time in a Jordanian prison for strangling his wife in New Jersey was indicted by a Morris County grand jury on charges of murder and kidnapping. [B9.]
 
MOTHER AND DAUGHTER STABBED TO DEATH
A girl and her mother were stabbed to death by men who broke into their Brentwood, L.I., home, the police said. [B10.]
 
Governor Pataki said that New York had been traditionally shortchanged in the web of operations administered by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. [B9.]

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Airport Cargo" compares tons of domestic and international freight leaving J.F.K, La Guardia, and Newark airports in May of 1994 and 1995. (Source: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); GRAND JURY (78%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (71%); CITIES (70%); PHOTOGRAPHY (68%); COUNTERFEITING (68%); APPROVALS (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%); VISUAL ARTISTS (63%); ART THEFT (63%); PETS (62%); PET STORES & SUPPLIES (62%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: L I PET SHOPS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



581 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-17
 
NATO ENTERS BALKANS WAR
After 40 months of hesitation, NATO stepped into the midst of the Bosnian war, pounding Bosnian Serb targets with air strikes and declaring that the bombardment would not stop until Sarajevo was secure. A1
 
U.S. SEEKS TO FORCE NEGOTIATIONS
News analysis: The underlying goal of President Clinton's new policy is not only to end the capacity of the Bosnian Serbs to shell Sarajevo again but also to force them to the bargaining table. A1
 
SARAJEVO CHEERS NATO BOMBING
The people of Sarajevo cheered as NATO bombed the Bosnian Serbs. "These were the only detonations of the whole war that made us happy," said one city resident. A1
 
ATTACKS A 'MIDDLING' SUCCESS
The NATO campaign has managed to "seriously reduce" the Bosnian Serb artillery around Sarajevo, the U.N. said. But two Pentagon officials said the raids have had only "fair to middling" success. A17
 
ROMANIA SUED OVER CHILD'S H.I.V.
Challenging a Government with one of the worst records for AIDS prevention in Europe, a couple is suing Romania for causing the H.I.V. infection of their daughter. A3
 
NORTH KOREA TESTS ARMISTICE
North Korea appears to be trying to destroy the armistice that has kept the peace since the Korean War, apparently in an effort to win a formal treaty with the U.S. A10
 
Shevardnadze said he will run for the presidency of Georgia.A5
 
Mexican officials insisted that drug traffickers killed a Cardinal. A7
 
Saddam Hussein's half brother criticized the Iraqi leader's son. A8
 
Rebels in Sri Lanka hijacked a ferry loaded with civilians. A9
 
Bishkek Journal: Kyrgyzstan reclaims its national hero. A4
 
National A18-23, B12-13
 
 
DRUG FOR ABORTIONS
A study has shown that abortions can be safely performed in early pregnancy by administering two prescription drugs that are already widely available. A1
 
SHAPING A DEAL FOR TURNER
Executives of Time Warner, Turner Broadcasting and Tele-Communications Inc. shuttled among New York hotel suites and conference rooms yesterday, rushing to hammer out an $8.5 billion deal for Time Warner to acquire Turner. A1
 
PUGILISTIC POLITICS
Residents of Alaska, a state not know for subtlety in politics, have been shocked by a physical attack on a visiting Democrat. A18
 
RACIAL ANXIETY IN LOS ANGELES
Former Detective Mark Fuhrman's comments, played on tape at the O. J. Simpson trial, exposed deep racial divisions within Los Angeles and its Police Department. A18
 
CNN and Court TV carried the Fuhrman tapes unedited. A18
 
FINDING ON LEG AT BLAST SITE
Officials said a mystery leg found in the rubble of the Oklahoma City Federal Building belonged to a black woman. A19
 
RULING ON SUICIDE DOCTOR
Murder charges against Dr. Jack Kevorkian were dismissed by a Michigan judge, who then indicated he might order the doctor to be tried assisted suicide charges. A21
 
A WORRYING FINDING ON AIDS
A study suggests that disinfectant sometimes used on medical and dental instruments does not always kill H.I.V. and patients thus have a potential risk. A22
 
PILOT CITED IN CRASH
The National Transportation Safety Board said that a runway collision of two airplanes in St. Louis last November was caused by the pilot of the smaller plane. A23
 
EXECUTION AND RETARDATION
Barry Fairchild is to be executed on Thursday unless his lawyer persuades a court that he is too retarded to kill under Arkansas law. B12
 
IMPLANT DEAL IN JEOPARDY
Lawyers failed to meet a court deadline toward renegotiating a $4 billion settlement involving thousands of women who say they were injured by breast implants. B12
 
PEROT SPEAKS ON MEDICARE
Ross Perot lectured Congress on how to save Medicare from bankruptcy, saying it must be re-engineered by experts with fresh ideas for controlling costs. B13
 
MASS QUIZZING OF U.S. OFFICERS
Federal investigators have surveyed more than 50,000 law-enforcement officers to find out who attended a Tennessee picnic that may have included racist and anti-Semitic activities. B13
 
A civil liberties group reported an increase in books banned. B13
 
Metro Digest B1
 
TURF WARS OVER DEATH PENALTY
As New York City braces for that most solemn of legal events -- the return of the death penalty after two decades -- preparations have been marked by sniping and turf skirmishes between lawyers. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
Montreal's festival: 400 films from 63 nations in 12 days. C13
How blacklisting hurt Hollywood children. C13
Theater: Sexier "Twelfth Night." C15
Music: Roy Hargrove. C14
Books: "Art and Money," by Marc Shell. C16
TV: "Cartoons Go to War." C16
 
The Home Section C1-10
 
No hinges. No knobs. No jeans, either. C1
L.I. wildfire: nature's tool. C1
At home with Kinky Friedman: Married to the wind. C1
 
Sports B16-22
 
Baseball: Yankees are back in the A.L. wild-card race. B17
Basketball: Players vote on labor agreement. B17
Columns: Araton on N.B.A. B17
Smith on baseball. B19
Football: Giants waive Graham, their backup quarterback. B17
Marino-led Dolphins getting ready for the Jets. B22
Holtz goes for No. 200. B16
Sports People. B16
Tennis: Hingis and Muster share center stage at U.S. Open. B17
 
Obituaries B15
 
Fischer Black, economist.
Frank Perry, film director.
Bartlett Jere Whiting, authority on Chaucer and proverbs.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
 
Editorials
 
Force and diplomacy in Bosnia.
New York teachers' sacrifices.
Polluted fish, polluted legislation.
 
Letters
 
Maureen Dowd: What Calvin means.
William L. Silber and Roy C. Smith: A big bank is not an end in itself.
Claude M. Steel: Black students live down to expectations.
 
Chronicle B26
 
Bridge C14
 
Crossword C14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: TCOM (NASDAQ) (63%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); GEORGIA (69%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TELE-COMMUNICATIONS INC (63%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (95%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); SRI LANKA (79%); GEORGIA (69%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BOMBINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (72%); AIDS & HIV (72%); MURDER (69%); LITIGATION (67%); ABORTION (67%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (64%); RACE & RACISM (63%); SUICIDE (60%); POLICE FORCES (58%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



582 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Asia-Pacific Regional Trade Group Is Showing Signs of Life

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
A six-year effort to strengthen trade and economic cooperation among the United States and 17 other nations in the Asia-Pacific region is showing new signs of vigor.
At a meeting in Indonesia last November of heads of government of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, President Clinton and the other leaders set 2010 as the goal for "free and open trade and investment" among the group's richer nations, with a target of 2020 for the poorer countries. Now, efforts are under way to accelerate the trade-liberalization process. 
 The 18 nations in the group account for more than half the world's economic output.
Japan, which will be host at this year's meeting, in Osaka in November, is pressing other members to begin tariff reductions at the start of 1997, trade officials said. They added that the Japanese effort had a good chance of succeeding.
At the same time, an advisory group appointed by the Asia-Pacific governments wants officials of these nations to underscore their commitment to free trade by agreeing to accelerate tariff cuts already promised in the new world trade accord.
The declaration signed last November included a pledge to "accelerate the implementation of our Uruguay Round commitments." The talks that produced the trade pact, held under the aegis of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, are known in diplomatic shorthand as the Uruguay Round.
The advisory group has also called on the economic forum to create a mediation service that would resolve trade disputes, coordinate antitrust policies, harmonize nations' industrial-product standards and help the International Monetary Fund protect the region against financial crises.
At first, the Pacific forum "seemed slow and hesitant, but in the last two years it's moved much faster," said C. Fred Bergsten, head of the Washington-based Institute for International Economics and chairman of the advisory group, at a Washington seminar last week. Mr. Bergsten presented the advisory group's recommendations yesterday to Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama of Japan.
Australia, a member of the Asia-Pacific forum, has estimated that if all trade barriers among the 18 nations were dropped, the world's annual economic output would increase $366 billion by 2010. By some estimates, the world trade accord, by comparison, is expected to increase output $112 billion a year.
Obstacles remain. Malaysia's Prime Minister, Mahathir Mohamad, when he signed the forum's free-trade declaration last year, said his officials would carry it out "at our own pace." And at talks with Australian aides last week, Japanese trade officials suggested excluding unspecified "sensitive sectors" from the free-trade pledge.
The other members of the Asia-Pacific forum are Brunei, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Canada, Mexico and Chile.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: ASIA PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION ASIA PACIFIC VENTURES (58%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); CHINA-HONG KONG PHOTO PRODUCTS HOLDINGS LTD (50%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (84%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (84%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (84%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (84%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN; ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDONESIA (93%); AUSTRALIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CANADA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHINA (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%); OSAKA, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); TRADE DISPUTES (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (65%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL BILL CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



583 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
As Depositors Panic, Japan Shuts Largest Credit Union

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Aug. 30

 BODY:
The crisis in Japan's banking system, stemming from hundreds of billions of dollars in bad real estate loans, took a big jolt today as Government authorities closed the nation's largest credit union and bailed out a regional bank on the brink of collapse.
In Osaka, hundreds of frantic customers clamored to withdraw their money from the Kizu Credit Cooperative, which had roughly $12 billion in assets and $9 billion in problem loans, as rumors of its impending shutdown circulated. Many customers were still without their money when the doors closed this afternoon, though Government officials assured them that all deposits would be honored. 
 A few hours later, the Ministry of Finance and Japan's central bankers provided a second major surprise, announcing a complex rescue package for the deeply troubled Hyogo Bank in Kobe, which had nearly $7 billion in uncollectible loans and had lent heavily to real estate ventures affiliated with itself.
The twin collapses are expected to wipe out the money in Japan's Deposit Insurance Corporation, the insurance fund analogous to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in the United States.
The Japanese fund, underwritten by fees paid by banks and other lenders, currently has 870 billion yen -- roughly $8.5 billion. It has already committed 100 billion yen to guarantee deposits at the failed Cosmo Credit Corporation, which had been Japan's biggest financial failure until today, and Government officials predicted that the two new failures would require about 800 billion yen more. Some of that will be come from the Bank of Japan, the nation's central bank.
Top officials, rushing to head off a wider panic, said that the worst problems were now behind them and that the country's biggest banks had more than enough capital to write off their own bad loans.
"There may be more bankruptcies, but much smaller ones," said Sei Nakai, deputy director general of the banking bureau at the Ministry of Finance. The biggest banks, he said confidently, generate annual profit on the order of $23 billion and "can work through their problem loans." Besides, he added, "we won't let them go bankrupt."
But industry analysts said the pain was far from over. Five savings institutions have collapsed in the last several months, each caused in large part by soured real estate loans that were made when property prices soared to previously unknown levels during Japan's "bubble economy" of the late 1980's.
As big as the failures so far have been, they account for less than $35 billion in problems loans. Government and industry analysts estimate that the total volume of loans either in arrears or uncollectible is at least $400 billion and possibly as much as $700 billion.
The spreading contagion has already forced officials to commit $1 billion in public money to make good on deposits held by the Cosmo credit union, and it remains unclear just how much additional money taxpayers will have to come up with in the months ahead.
Bank regulators tried to cover today's two failures primarily by lining up commitments from major creditors of the failed bank and credit union, as well as money from the deposit insurance fund. The country's central bank is considered almost certain to become a lender of last resort in future bailouts.
The immediate impact of the growing Japanese bank crisis on financial institutions in the United States and other countries is expected to be barely noticeable. Foreign banks have not been big creditors of the financial institutions that have failed so far, officials here say, and the biggest drag on global business is likely to stem from Japan's broad economic slowdown.
Industry analysts here said that Japan's bankers and policy makers are almost certain to face painful choices in the months ahead. "The banks being liquidated now are really too small to matter -- you can shoot them in the head and it's not really a problem," said Alicia Ogawa of Salomon Brothers. "The bigger problems are resident in the major commercial banks, and those situations are not so easy to solve."
The big city banks and credit unions, some of which have assets of more than $300 billion, employ thousands of people and cannot be easily merged with healthier institutions. Since laying off employees remains taboo in this country, Ms. Ogawa said, banks have little incentive to acquire each other because they can gain very little in the way of cost reductions from closing branches.
Much like the the go-go operators who fueled the American savings and loan crisis, some of Japan's aggressive lenders have worsened the problem by making risky loans to companies owned by friends and cronies.
Kizu, the Osaka credit union that collapsed today, emulated the pattern of scores of American savings institutions by using high interest rates to build up deposits at blinding rates. Noticeably flamboyant, the credit union also attracted depositors with television ads dominated by pretty women.
Bearing far less resemblance to the humble image of a credit union than to the likes of a Charles Keating, Kizu's deposits and loans each nearly quintupled between 1988 and its closing today, and some of its biggest loans were to two affiliate companies.
Self-dealing loans, a prominent element in the American savings and loan scandals, appear to be common in Japan, as well. Government experts recently estimated that executives at 157 of Japan's 374 credit cooperatives were involved in outside companies. The Government also estimated that 39 percent of the credit unions were violating a law that bars them from lending more than 20 percent of their deposits to a single borrower.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Depositors in Osaka clamored for their money at the Kizu Credit Cooperative, Japan's biggest credit union, yesterday before Government regulators closed it as the crisis in the nation's banking system deepened. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (58%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: KIZU CREDIT UNION; BANK OF JAPAN; HYOGO BANK (KOBE, JAPAN) FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: KIZU CREDIT UNION; BANK OF JAPAN; HYOGO BANK (KOBE, JAPAN)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (58%); OSAKA, JAPAN (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); INDUSTRY PROFILES BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



584 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Traders Bailing Out of the Yen As Japan's Bank Crisis Grows

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar surged against the yen yesterday as currency traders bailed out of the yen after Japanese regulators shut a credit union and announced a rescue package for a regional bank.
The dollar touched its highest level against the yen in nearly seven months. 
 During Asian trading, the Japanese Goverment closed down the Kizu Credit Cooperative of Osaka and prepared a rescue for the Hyogo Bank of Kobe, which had nearly $7 billion in bad loans.
The growing crisis in Japan's banking system is making traders wary of Japanese financial markets, prompting the selloff in yen.
"The market now is looking for a weaker yen," said Charles Spence, director of currency sales at Standard Chartered Bank in New York, "as the crumbling banking system in Japan is causing foreigners to hedge any investment they still hold on to there." It is also causing Japanese investors to flee to American assets, he said.
After falling to post-World War II lows against the yen in April, the dollar has recovered nearly all its losses for this year -- which at one point exceeded 20 percent.
The banking crisis and sluggish recovery in Japan indicate that the dollar can reach 110 yen by the end of the year, said Hillel Waxman, manager of foreign exchange at the Bank Leumi Trust Company in New York.
The dollar rose as high as 99.25 yen -- its highest since Feb. 10, when it reached 99.36 yen. It later settled in New York trading at 99.11 yen, up from 98.21 yen on Tuesday. The dollar edged up to 1.4781 German marks from 1.4779 marks in late trading. The British pound rose to $1.5452 from $1.5431.
Despite another cut in a German interest rate, the dollar was unable to advance very far against the mark, which continues to gain support from political turmoil in France and Italy.
In its regular weekly money market operation yesterday, the Bundesbank cut its 14-day securities repurchase agreement rate, known as the repo rate, to 4.30 percent from 4.39 percent. Last week, the repo rate, a benchmark for most other short-term German rates, was lowered to 4.39 percent from 4.45 percent.
Traders said yesterday's rate cut was expected.
"Any weakness in the mark that was caused by the repo-rate reduction was overwhelmed by the purchase of marks for other European currencies," Mr. Spence of Standard Chartered said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUMI (TASE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (56%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (87%); GERMANY (86%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (56%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (56%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (87%); GERMANY (86%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); OSAKA, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; BANKS AND BANKING CURRENCIES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANK FAILURES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BRITISH POUND (73%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); WORLD WAR II (53%); 

PERSON: CHARLES SPENCE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



585 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Fischer Black, 57, Wall Street Theorist, Dies

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
Fischer Black, an economist whose groundbreaking work in financial theory helped revolutionize modern Wall Street, died yesterday at his home in New Canaan, Conn., after a yearlong battle with cancer, his family said.
Mr. Black, 57, was a partner in the investment banking firm of Goldman, Sachs & Company. 
 He was the father, with two other noted economists, of a seminal theory that first gave Wall Street a complex but workable solution to a simple but intractable puzzle: how to value an option.
An option is a financial instrument that allows, but does not require, an investor to buy an asset, like a stock, at a prearranged price during a fixed span of time. Until 1973, when the theory that Mr. Black helped devise was first outlined in a University of Chicago journal, the difficulty of sorting through all the variables that would affect the value of an option during its lifetime had severely limited the growth of the options market.
The options pricing theory devised by Mr. Black and his collaborators and fellow economists, Myron Scholes and Robert C. Merton, solved the puzzle of options pricing by devising a complicated mathematical equation, known as the Black-Scholes model, that took into account the many variables.
The solution helped lay the cornerstone for today's vast global options market, a marketplace that touches almost everyone with a stake in the capital markets, from corporate executives who receive stock options as part of their pay package to modest mutual fund investors whose money-market funds use options to hedge their interest-rate risk.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange, the first devoted soley to options trading, opened its doors just as the Black-Scholes study was published in 1973. Mr. Black and Mr. Scholes came to be regarded as almost the patron saints of the new exchange, said Merton H. Miller, a professor at the University of Chicago and the winner of the 1990 Nobel Prize in economics. "Whenever Fischer and Myron went on the floor of the Chicago Board Options Exchange, business stopped and everybody would give them a standing ovation," Mr. Miller said.
In academia, there had been keen competition to be the first to find a solution to the options pricing puzzle, recalled Paul Samuelson, the Nobel laureate and a professor emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "It was like the race to the North Pole, and they were the very first to get there," he said. "I had worked on the problem, too, and I was close, but no cigar."
An original and unorthodox theorist, Mr. Black was known for offering impromptu late-night criticism of his colleagues' work. Mr. Miller said he received many such calls: "It would be 11 P.M. and the phone would ring and you'd hear Fischer's voice saying 'On page 31, you have made a fundamental error,' " he recalled with a laugh.
Fischer S. Black Jr. was born in Washington in 1938. He graduated from Harvard in 1959 with a degree in physics and, in 1964, was awarded a doctorate in applied mathematics. Peter L. Bernstein, the author of a study of ideas that shaped Wall Street ("Capital Ideas, the Improbable Origins of Modern Wall Street," The Free Press, 1992), said Mr. Black quickly "found his scientific studies too abstract" and headed for the world of business.
It was while working at Arthur D. Little & Company in the late 1960's that he collaborated with Mr. Scholes and Mr. Merton, both junior faculty members at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, on the options-pricing model. Mr. Black then formed his own consulting firm in 1969, and in 1971 became a visiting professor of finance at the University of Chicago, where Mr. Merton was instrumental in adding him to the faculty as a professor of finance in 1972.
In 1975, Mr. Black moved to M.I.T., where he remained until joining Goldman, Sachs in 1984. He later became a partner in the firm, helping to create hedging, trading and portfolio management strategies for its clients.
In making the transition from academia, Mr. Black was among the first of what came to be called the rocket scientists on Wall Street, financial experts who helped usher in an era of increasingly intricate, often useful and sometimes controversial financial instruments.
After his cancer was diagnosed a year ago, Mr. Black continued to correspond by computer with colleagues and friends until a few weeks ago, and this summer he saw the publication of his second book, "Exploring General Equilibrium" (M.I.T. Press).
Mr. Black is survived by his parents, Fischer and Elizabeth Black of Tampa, Fla., and by his third wife, Catherine Tawes Black of New Canaan. Two earlier marriages ended in divorce.
Survivors also include four daughters, Alethea Black of New York City, Melissa Black of Boston, Ashley Black of Atlanta, and Paige Black of Winchester, Mass.; a son, Terry Linton of Washington; a stepdaughter, Kristen A. Tawes of New Canaan; a stepson, Kevin L. Tawes of Boston; a brother, Louis E. Black of New York City, and a sister, J. Blakeney Bartlett, of Fairlee, Vt.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fischer Black. (Calvin Campbell, 1984) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); CBOE (NASDAQ) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (67%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CBOE HOLDINGS INC (67%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (85%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (67%); RESEARCH REPORTS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BLACK, FISCHER; HENRIQUES, DIANA B FISCHER S BLACK JR (98%); MYRON SCHOLES (80%); MERTON H MILLER (57%); ROBERT C MERTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



586 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Blinder Is Undecided on Leaving the Fed

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve's vice chairman, Alan Blinder, said today that he had not decided whether to leave when his term expires early next year, but he did not deny reports that he was planning to return to teaching at Princeton University.
Inquiries about Mr. Blinder's plans were prompted by reports from Princeton University that officials in the economics department there expect him to return to the faculty in February. 
 In a brief statement provided by a Federal Reserve spokesman, Mr. Blinder said: "No decision has been made. My term ends Jan. 31. I would have to be reappointed. I haven't made any decision, and as far as I know the president of the United States hasn't made any decision."
Mr. Blinder was in Stockholm today and was not available to elaborate on his statement.
There have been growing speculation on Wall Street and in Washington that Mr. Blinder, 49, intends to leave the Fed because President Clinton is expected to reappoint Alan Greenspan as chairman of the central bank next year rather than name Mr. Blinder to the top spot.
The Administration has reportedly decided that Mr. Blinder, a self-described dove on inflation, would face insurmountable problems in being confirmed as chairman by the Republican-controlled Senate, while Mr. Greenspan is a popular choice.
Mr. Greenspan, a Republican, was appointed to the Fed by President Ronald Reagan and reappointed by President George Bush.
Mr. Greenspan has led the central bank's efforts to keep inflation in check by engineering a series of seven interest rate increases concluding in February. The Fed reversed course in July, cutting short-term rates for the first time in three years in reaction to signs that the economy was stalling.
Mr. Blinder joined the Clinton Administration as a member of the White House Council of Economic Advisers in 1993 and was named Fed vice chairman last year. He has been on a leave of absence from Princeton that is scheduled to end in February.
There is already a vacancy on the Fed's seven-member board of governors, created when John P. LaWare quit earlier this year.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (53%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; PRINCETON UNIVERSITY FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (82%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (76%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (53%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); APPOINTMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: BLINDER, ALAN S ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (70%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



587 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Perot Tells Senate Committee It's Time to Get Experts' Opinions on Reining In Medicare

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30

 BODY:
Ross Perot, who made a fortune selling computer services to the Government, lectured Congress today on how to save Medicare from bankruptcy, saying the program must be re-engineered by experts with fresh ideas for controlling costs.
Mr. Perot, who is again considering running for President as an independent, repeatedly likened Medicare to a decrepit airplane. 
 "We have looked at the complete instrument panel, and there's only one thing to do if you're flying, and that is eject quickly, because this plane is going down," the Texas billionaire said at a hearing of the Senate Finance Committee, convened mainly as a forum for him.
Republicans in Congress say they are cutting the growth of Medicare to preserve the program, not to balance the budget. But Mr. Perot was not shy about making the connection, saying, "You've got to put a lid on this thing and slow it down now to balance the budget."
He said he might barnstorm the country to educate Americans about Medicare if the two parties did not face up to the issue this fall. Four Republicans attended today's hearing, called by Senator Bob Packwood, the Oregon Republican who is chairman of the committee, but no Democrats showed up.
Mr. Perot encouraged Congress to experiment with innovative ways to finance health care for the 37 million elderly and disabled people now enrolled in Medicare. He said the Government should not pressure them to enroll in health maintenance organizations, as some Republicans have suggested.
"If someone were to ask me what is my principal concern about H.M.O.'s, it's the concentration of power; it's the giant salaries," Mr. Perot said, alluding to recent reports about compensation of top H.M.O. executives and the growing influence of such plans in the health care industry. "You know, that doesn't look good to me."
Health maintenance organizations, which provide comprehensive care in return for fixed monthly premiums, "tend to turn the doctor into just an employee," Mr. Perot said, and "the day we do that, we will have really damaged health care." Doctors, he said, should "play a leadership role and not be just lowered to bidding their services to an H.M.O."
Mr. Perot did not offer a blueprint for redesigning Medicare, but suggested that wealthy people should pay more for their care. "It would be a joke for me to ever get a Medicare check" because "I don't need it," he said.
He also said that Congress should not write rigid rules into law. "Let's experiment with it," he said. "Let's not dive into an empty pool at night and break our necks. Let's tiptoe into the water with some of these things and find out what works."
When Mr. Perot ran for President in 1992, he promised to bring the efficiency of private industry to the work of Government. But in earlier years, auditors from the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, often criticized work done by his companies for Medicare and other Federal programs.
For example, at a Congressional hearing in 1980, an auditor testified that Medicare beneficiaries, doctors and hospitals in Illinois "experienced an entire year of poor performance" by Electronic Data Systems, one of Mr. Perot's companies. The auditors said the company had sent "ominous form letters" to Medicare beneficiaries and had destroyed thousands of claims as a way to reduce huge backlogs of unfinished work.
Aides to Mr. Perot acknowledged in 1992 that there had been problems but said that they had been corrected and that the Government continued to do business with him.
Victor F. Zonana, a spokesman for the Department of Health and Human Services, said today that President Clinton shared many of Mr. Perot's concerns. "We are taking a tough look at Medicare costs, to save money, but there is a right way and a wrong way to do it," Mr. Zonana said. "The right way is by taking it from health care providers. The wrong way is by taking it out of beneficiaries."
Mr. Perot said that Federal officials were afraid to let experts help design a new health care system. "We have this sense that anybody that understands medicine would have a conflict of interest," he said. "So we bring in philosophers, economists, beekeepers, symphony conductors and people like that to put together a health care system, and then we wonder why it didn't work.
"We pass social programs assuming that everybody's got the same size foot, and then we wonder why their feet hurt."
Mr. Perot said he hoped Democrats and Republicans would work together to shore up Medicare and to restore confidence in the two-party system. But if they do not, he said, he is ready to run for President as an independent.
"The American people will go" for such a third-party candidate, he said. "They are restless to go. They are mad at me for not doing it now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Medicare system is a plummeting airplane, Ross Perot told a Senate committee yesterday. Mr. Perot talked with Jonathan Karl, who also testified, as Senator Bob Packwood waited to thank him for appearing. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (54%); OREGON, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (54%); OREGON, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; BANKRUPTCIES; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS; MEDICARE MEDICARE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; PEAR, ROBERT ANN LIVERMORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



588 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Growth Revised Upward, but It Was Still Weak

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
The economy grew at a somewhat faster clip in the second quarter than originally estimated, the Government said yesterday, but the rate of expansion was still the weakest in nearly four years.
For the April-June period, the Commerce Department said gross domestic product, which measures all goods and services, grew at an annual rate of 1.1 percent on an inflation-adjusted basis, more than double the rate of a half of 1 percent reported a month ago, when a preliminary estimate of second quarter growth was released. 
 The slightly faster rate of growth was largely a result of upward revisions in consumer spending and a rise in farm inventory investment. But the change did little to alter opinions among private analysts about the economy's prospects for the balance of the year.
"The entire revision was in two categories, consumption and farm inventories, which alone was responsible for about 40 percent of the overall increase in gross domestic product," said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Securities Inc. "But being on a trading floor in New York, I can't get excited about farm inventories."
After slowing sharply during the first six months from an unsustainably rapid pace in the second half of 1994, most analysts still expect the economy to rebound to the rate of growth of 2 to 2.5 percent that is favored by the Federal Reserve. In the first three months of the year, the economy grew at a 2.7 percent annual rate, down from the more than 4 percent average rate of growth recorded for the last six months of 1994.
"On the margin, the economy wasn't as weak as we thought in the second quarter, and this bodes better for the second half," said Paul Mastroddi, a managing director at J. P. Morgan Inc.
The revised report contained "more good news than bad news," said Donald Ratajczak, director of the economic forecasting project at Georgia State University. "Capital spending is still strong, exports are still good and there are no inflationary concerns."
Worries about inflation were the primary force behind the seven increases in short-term interest rates engineered by the Federal Reserve over a 12-month period beginning Feb. 4, 1994.
The absence of inflationary pressures was prominently mentioned when the Fed reversed its previous course in early July, pushing short-term rates down by a quarter of a percentage point.
Yesterday's report provides further evidence that inflation remains in check.
"The economy looks like it is headed to a 2 percent to 3 percent growth path," said Allen Sinai, chief global economist at Lehman Brothers, "and that is exactly where the Fed wants it."
As measured by the gross domestic product deflator, the prices of goods and services rose 1.6 percent during the second quarter, slightly higher than the 1.3 percent rate reported in July, but less than the 2.2 percent rate recorded in the first quarter.
The fixed-weight price index for domestic purchases, which in contrast to the deflator does not reflect the changing composition of output, rose at a 2.8 percent rate, up slightly from the 2.7 percent rate of increase that was originally reported.
The Commerce Department will make its final revision to its second-quarter G.D.P. report at the end of September.
The department also said that using a new method of calculating growth that it is phasing in this year, G.D.P. expanded five-tenths of 1 percent in the second quarter, and did not decline by two-tenths of 1 percent, as first reported. The new method will formally replace the older system at the end of 1995 and is designed to measure price changes more accurately.
Analysts cited improving home sale numbers, which should lead to increased sales of consumer durable items, strong capital spending and a likely improvement in the nation's trade accounts as reasons they expect growth to pick up.
Mr. Ratajczak, who projected that the economy was growing at a 2 percent annual rate in the third quarter, said that despite sluggish auto and back-to-school sales, consumers almost certainly are spending more money this quarter than they did in the previous three months.
"We know they are spending more, if not on autos, then on utilities, because of the heat, which affects anyone from the Mississippi Valley to the East," he said.
Increased spending on utilities could well cut further into the personal savings rate, which fell significantly in the second quarter from the first.
Yesterday, the Commerce Department said the personal savings rate in the second quarter was 4 percent, not 4.1 percent, as originally reported. In the first quarter, the savings rate was 5.1 percent.
"The heat will boost service consumption in July and August," Mr. Fine said, "but I don't know if consumer spending will remain strong. We do know the third and fourth quarters will be better than the second. Growth in the second half should be characterized as moderate, not strong. And it will not engender increased inflationary pressures."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Economic Growth" shows change in real gross domestic product from '91 to '95 (Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT CHASE SECURITIES INC (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP) ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



589 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Governor Closes Harlem Development Agency

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY 

 BODY:
After months of wrangling, the Pataki administration yesterday formally shut down the Harlem Urban Development Corporation, a semi-independent 23-year-old agency that used state and private funds to spur economic activity in the hard-pressed area.
In its place, Gov. George E. Pataki created a new entity, the Harlem Community Development Corporation, which will receive 40 percent less in funding and will have a board of directors dominated by appointees of the Governor. 
 The move came after a long fight over how much money the state would provide to economic development efforts in Harlem, where the unemployment rate consistently hovers in the mid-teens and census figures show that 30 percent of the population lives in poverty.
Earlier this year, state officials announced that they would assume authority over their economic development efforts in Harlem, instead of continuing to turn the money over to the autonomously run Urban Development Corporation. While that organization has had mixed success with housing and retail development over more than two decades, it was also criticized in some quarters as a costly and ineffective tool of the local politicians who sat on its board.
In a statement, Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation -- which until recently was known as the New York State Urban Development Corporation -- said that the Governor's action "brings to an end the 23-year uncontested reign" of an organization that was criticized "for its lack of leadership and failure to stimulate economic growth despite an investment of more than $100 million in state funds over the years." Last year, the Urban Development Corporation received $3.1 million from the state.
The Governor's action has prompted charges from the Urban Development Corporation's employees and supporters, who assert that state-appointed outsiders cannot adequately address the economic needs of Harlem. One person who attended the first board meeting of the new organization yesterday, and who spoke on condition of anonymity, described the meeting as "a room full of board members who don't even know each other, much less the community."
Meanwhile, many of the 37 workers who were employed at the defunct organization are threatening to sue the state, charging that they were promised jobs with the new organization only to be told last week that their payroll allocation for the fiscal year, which ends next March, has already been spent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARLEM URBAN DEVELOPMENT CORP; HARLEM COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORP EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARLEM URBAN DEVELOPMENT CORP; HARLEM COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TRENDS (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); POVERTY RATES (71%); CENSUS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); PULLEY, BRETT EDDIE GEORGE (73%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



590 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 20; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: U.S. OPEN '95;
Just Off in the Distance, a Stadium Is Taking Shape

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
The quietest place at the National Tennis Center during the United States Open is next door, where a steel and concrete shell will be a 23,500-seat stadium by 1997 -- the major part of a project estimated to cost $227 million.
But the price tag, which began as a $150 million project, could go up to $265 million. 
 Construction, which began in March, was halted for the two weeks before the Open began and will not resume until two weeks after the tournament ends.
The skeleton of the stadium's south end is most visible: plumbing fixtures, elevator towers, escalator pits, staircases, and a photographers' dugout. Two levels of luxury suites are still concrete slabs and steel beams. A blue and white banner covers the grounds of the future stadium court, built on a former landfill and the foundation of the 1939 World's Fair's Federal Building.
"Biggest banner in the world," said Page Crosland, a spokeswoman for the United States Tennis Association, which controls the tennis center and the Open.
The new stadium will replace the 20,000-seat Louis Armstrong Stadium, which will be renovated and pared down to 10,000 seats. The 5,500-seat grandstand will also be redone and reduced to a 4,800-seat structure.
The United States Open moved to Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in 1978 to a stadium and grandstand built over the Singer Bowl, which was left over from the 1964 World's Fair. But the U.S.T.A. has wanted something new since the late 1980's.
"What's there is a kind of crummy Erector set," said Federal Judge Robert J. Kelleher, who served as the U.S.T.A. president in 1967 and 1968, and was a strong proponent of open tennis, which began in 1968.
"Egos are involved. Australia built a magnificent place; Roland Garros built a great place and now Wimbledon may have the best plans yet. There are a lot of egos involved and people like Bumpy Frazer could not sit still while that was happening, whether the U.S.T.A. had the money or not."
J. Howard Frazer preceded the current U.S.T.A. president, Lester Snyder Jr.
Snyder said: "You could keep putting Band-Aids on the facility, but it would never be first-rate. Its time had come. Look at other areas." He admitted that the U.S.T.A. looked at other cities, but decided, "This was the place to be, where the U.S. Open ought to be."
The U.S.T.A. is certain it has the money to finance the project. The central financing is a $150 million bond issue arranged through New York City's industrial development agency. The bonds are tax exempt and sport a lower interest rate than what the U.S.T.A. would have found on its own.
The association pays the debt service on its own and the extra $77 million the project now costs. It has shifted $70 million from its general fund to help pay its costs and plans to move another $40 million this year and in 1996, said Bob Garry, the association's director of finance and administration.
Another $51.5 million earmarked for operating expenses can be tapped if the costs continue to escalate, Garry said.
"The only reasons to cause the costs to escalate is if we try to make changes and we have to protect ourselves against doing it," Garry said.
Garry said the U.S.T.A.'s construction spending won't come at the expense of what it spends on tennis programs in 17 sections nationwide. In 1994, it spent $16.1 million on the sections, up from $15.8 million in 1993.
"We have built-in increases to sections in each year," he said, adding that the association anticipates revenues to increase in coming years, partly from the 90 luxury suites expected to bring in at least $8 million a year in revenues.
The luxury suite income could just about pay for the interest the U.S.T.A. must pay on its bonds. This year, the interest cost is $9.6 million.
Part of the price of having the city lease 28 acres for the construction project in a deal made by Mayor David N. Dinkins in the last days of his administration was the requirement that the U.S.T.A. pay higher rent.
The base rent of about $400,000 (up from $320,400 last year), is one component of the payment: the association must also pay 1 percent of U.S.T.A. and tennis center revenues. The 1995 rent should be about $1 million, said Garry.
"It's a good deal for us," said Henry Stern, the city's Commissioner of Parks and Recreation. "They're building and paying for their own stadium, but we'll own it, while other franchises want the city to do that all for them."
Stern's main objection to the U.S.T.A.'s leases with the city -- 25 years with options to go up to 99 -- is a provision that would levy fines on the city totaling $325,000 if planes from LaGuardia Airport disturb the matches. "That makes the city responsible for events out of our control," he said.
Stern has no objection to leasing land for tennis that had been used by regular parkgoers. But Benjamin Haber, of Kew Garden Hills, said: "It was monumentally stupid of the city to allow it. How do you justify giving up urban parkland for a commercial operation? It's a blight."

GRAPHIC: Photo: From the stands of the U.S. Open grounds, the construction site of the new 23,500-seat stadium, which is now just concrete and steel, can be seen. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (55%); UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (55%); UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLUSHING MEADOWS-CORONA PARK (NYC); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: TENNIS; UNITED STATES OPEN (TENNIS) SPORTS (93%); TENNIS (93%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (71%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (70%); JUDGES (68%); BONDS (63%); BOND ISSUES (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); LANDFILLS (53%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD BOB GARRY (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



591 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Advance On Fed Official's Comment

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities ended higher yesterday, helped by a stronger dollar and by comments from a top Federal Reserve official pointing to lower interest rates.
But trading was thin, with many market participants staying on the sidelines until tomorrow's employment report. 
 Government securities rallied a bit at the opening of the session on comments earlier yesterday by Alan S. Blinder, the vice chairman of the Fed. Mr. Blinder, speaking at a news conference in Sweden, said there was room for further interest rate cuts. He added that recent economic reports showed the decision to leave rates unchanged on Aug. 22 was the correct one and that he "still has an open mind on rates," according to the Swedish news agency Direkt.
Douglas Burtnick, senior fixed-income analyst in Boston for Technical Data, said, "The market started out with a roar" following Mr. Blinder's comments, "until it became obvious that 'open minded' doesn't indicate that he's doing anything more than sitting on the fence waiting for more information."
The rally stalled after the Commerce Department released its second revision of the gross domestic product for the second quarter. The revision showed the economy growing at a 1.1 percent, up from an initial estimate of half of 1 percent. The Commerce Department releases G.D.P estimates three times a quarter.
While it was the weakest growth rate since the end of 1991, Ken McCarthy, founder of the Economic Intelligence Company, a market research and analysis firm, said, "The underlying data indicate that the economy is on a sound footing and will grow at a good clip in the second half."
The G.D.P. data revived concerns that the Fed might hold off cutting short-term interest rates if the economy was seen as stronger than previously believed.
Many in the market had already priced in a rate cut by the Fed, and prices retreated somewhat.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 6/32 of a percentage point, to 102 11/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 6.69 percent, from 6.71 percent on Tuesday. In futures trading, the December Treasury bond contract was steady, trading in a price range of between 111 29/32 and 112 9/32 .
Anthony Dwyer, chief market strategist at Josephthal, Lyon & Ross, said Treasury prices were bolstered by the rising dollar, which makes American assets more attractive to foreign investors.
Today, the market will see the weekly jobless claims report and the Chicago Association of Purchasing Managers survey. Some market participants are likely to react to the data since they come just before the employment report for August and the National Association of Purchasing Management's survey. In addition, the Treasury is auctioning $18 billion of 20-day cash management bills today.
Many in the market say that tomorrow's employment data will be important in providing a gauge of near-term monetary policy outlook.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SWEDEN (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%); JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); SWEDEN (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; CURRENCY; CREDIT TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); AUCTIONS (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); FUTURES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (64%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN S BLINDER (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



592 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
IS a revamping of the civil justice system another one-day wonder, an issue that lets politicians tut-tut over waste, fraud and abuse before it is nibbled to death by lobbyists?
It certainly is looking that way, as Congressional Republicans shuffle toward unambitious limitations on shareholder suits and product liability and President Clinton threatens to veto almost any change of substance that hits his desk. But there is one area of civil justice that could win political points for Republicans long after the public has moved on to fresher outrages: auto insurance overhaul. 
 Indeed the potential political gain is magnified by evidence of the link between auto insurance revisions and medical care costs. As a new study by the Rand Corporation's Institute for Civil Justice suggests, changes in incentives to overuse medical care after auto accidents could prove crucial in meeting the Republican commitment to balance the Federal budget.
While accident rates are stable, there are still lots of reasons why auto insurance premiums have gone through the roof in the last two decades. Cars cost more to fix and medical care is costlier. And on the whole, Americans are more inclined to sue each other. But the monster in the auto insurance box is the growth in successful claims for intangible injuries -- what lawyers call pain and suffering.
Newly published estimates by Rand break down by state the potential savings from prohibiting the recovery of damages for pain and suffering. Drivers in Connecticut, Hawaii and Massachusetts would see their premiums fall by 40 percent or more. Even New York, which limits access to juries by means of a tough "no fault" law, stands to save 35 percent. Over all, the potential saving is 31 percent of auto insurance premiums -- some $26 billion annually.
Pain and suffering suits have an unintended side effect that has only recently been highlighted by Michael Horowitz of the Hudson Institute and Jeffrey O'Connell of the University of Virginia Law School. In less-than-catastrophic injury cases, they argue, claimants often run up big medical bills because their lawyers have learned that settlements for pain and suffering are generally figured as a multiple of medical expenses. Rand estimates that in 1993 more than one-third of claimed medical costs were fraudulent, adding $4 billion to the nation's health care bill and $9 billion to $13 billion to payouts for pain and suffering as well as legal fees.
Rand is not alone. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has been devoting considerable attention to the connection between medical costs and auto insurance fraud, pursuing what it calls Operation Sudden Impact. In May, along with announcing the latest series of arrests, Louis J. Freeh, the F.B.I. Director, estimated that "every American household is burdened with over $200 annually in additional premiums to make up for this type of fraud."
States could simply bar pain and suffering claims in auto accidents. But in most legislatures that is out of the question, partly because trial lawyers are bitterly opposed and partly because it seems intuitively unfair to lock the courthouse door to claimants and throw away the key.
That is where the "choice" concept, offered by Mr. Horowitz and Mr. O'Connell, fits in. They would allow people to buy auto insurance with or without the right to sue for pain and suffering. Those who opted out to save money could still make claims for full economic losses. But they could neither sue nor be sued for intangible losses unless the defendant was drunk or intended to do injury. Those who want to retain the right would pay for it: If they are injured by someone who had opted out they could collect pain and suffering damages from their own insurance companies, much the way claimants now collect from their own insurers when they are harmed by an uninsured motorist.
Apart from decimating the ranks of ambulance chasers and putting tens of billions of dollars in consumers' pockets, the legal scholars note two other advantages. According to Rand, the biggest winners would be the poor, who would no longer pay insurance premiums that reflect the pain and suffering claims of affluent drivers. Equally important, there would be more incentive to link auto premiums to the safety features of automobiles since the bulk of compensation for injury would be paid by one's own insurance company.
Initial efforts to include an auto insurance "choice" requirement in the Republicans' civil justice changes were tarred as just another attempt to subvert the will of the states, and there is hardly a groundswell for trying again soon. But two Republican Senators, Spencer Abraham of Michigan and Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, think they have found a way around the objection that may put it back on the political agenda: give each state the option of eliminating choice by an affirmative vote of the legislature.
Mr. Horowitz likes the compromise and almost hopes a few states would deny their residents the right to choose in order to highlight the size of the windfall. "Premiums in adjacent states would be lower by a third or more," he exalts.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); DAMAGES (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); HEALTH CARE LAW (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INSURANCE FRAUD (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); PERSONAL INJURY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); VETO (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); JURY TRIALS (75%); INSURANCE (75%); BUDGETS (73%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (73%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



593 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
NIAGARA MOHAWK WARNS OF POSSIBLE TOUGH MEASURES

BYLINE: Dow Jones 

 BODY:
Shares of the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation dropped 9 percent yesterday after the utility, which is based in Syracuse, warned that it might be forced to cut its dividend or take other steps in a difficult business climate. In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Niagara Mohawk complained of growing competition, a sluggish economy, regulatory obstacles and other adverse influences on its business. Niagara Mohawk said it might have to restructure contracts or take "even more severe actions" to "keep the company financially viable." Niagara Mohawk's shares fell $1.25, to $12.50, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NMK (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP (94%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NIAGARA MOHAWK POWER CORP SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); DIVIDENDS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (87%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (84%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995



594 of 594 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 31, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Home Desk 

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: Bring Back the W.P.A.

 BODY:
To The Home Section:
Architectural treasures, landmark structures in the national parks, are crumbling ("America's Crumbling 'Parkitecture,' " Aug. 10), and in the inner cities, unemployed, untrained young men and women are hanging out idly, wasting time and their young lives. 
 It seems to me that the two seemingly unrelated disasters have a common solution. Taking the example of the Roosevelt-era Works Progress Administration, the Government could create a cadre of young people to be involved in restoration of the national treasures at a reasonable cost, while learning a trade, discipline and making a worthwhile investment in the nation and their own lives.
I see no downside to this solution. So why not?
 
MARCEL TUCHMAN ,M.D.
New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: W P I (73%); WORKS PROGRESS ADMINISTRATION (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORKS PROGRESS ADMINISTRATION (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES NATIONAL PARKS (91%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (88%); 

PERSON: TUCHMAN, MARCEL SIR GEORGE YOUNG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1995

 
