

1001 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: What Would Nixon Do?

BYLINE: By GIDEON ROSE. 
The editor of Foreign Affairs and author of ''How Wars End: Why We Always Fight the Last Battle.''

 BODY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA has made good on his pledge to begin drawing down American forces in Afghanistan, but his stated strategy is unlikely to lead to a successful withdrawal.
Mr. Obama announced last week that 10,000 troops would come home by December and another 23,000 by next summer. By 2014, he confidently proclaimed, ''the Afghan people will be responsible for their own security.''
Administration hawks, largely in the military, are uneasy; they had wanted to go slower, so as to safeguard recent gains made against the Taliban. Administration doves, largely in the White House, are disappointed; they had wanted to pull back faster, seeing the killing of Osama bin Laden as an ideal opportunity to get out.
The president split the difference, suggesting that he was charting a ''centered course.'' But he has actually once again evaded the fundamental choice between accepting the costs of staying and the risks of leaving. 
What he needs is a strategy for getting out without turning a retreat into a rout -- and he would be wise to borrow one from the last American administration to extricate itself from a thankless, seemingly endless counterinsurgency in a remote and strategically marginal region. Mr. Obama should ask himself, in short: What would Nixon do?
Richard M. Nixon and his national security adviser, Henry A. Kissinger, tried to manage the risks of exiting the Vietnam War by masking their withdrawal with deliberate deception and aggressive covering fire. They almost succeeded -- and if tried again in today's more favorable environment, their strategy would most likely work.
The Nixonian approach has its costs: it would generate charges of lying, escalation and betrayal. And embracing it would require the president to display a deftness and a tough-mindedness he has rarely shown. But it could also provide the ticket home. Indeed, Mr. Obama's best option is to repeat Mr. Nixon's Vietnam endgame and hope for a different outcome -- to get 1973, one might say, without having it followed by 1975.
It may seem crazy to regard the American withdrawal from Vietnam as anything but disastrous. Our local ally collapsed two years after signing a peace deal, our enemies triumphantly conquered the country we had fought for more than a decade to defend, and the image of panicked friends reaching in vain for the last helicopter out of Saigon remains seared into our national consciousness. But Mr. Nixon actually did a lot right in Vietnam, and his approach there was not the primary cause of the war's ignominious end.
In late 1969, faced with increasing domestic pressure to end the war, the president and Mr. Kissinger settled on a strategy to reduce the American role in ground combat while fending off a South Vietnamese collapse. They sought to walk away from the war, get American prisoners back and avoid formally betraying an ally -- something they believed would damage America's reputation. They recognized that their approach would leave the South Vietnamese vulnerable following the American withdrawal, but considered that an acceptable price to pay for getting out.
They never said this last bit publicly, of course. But in private, they were more candid, as the White House tapes showed. During an August 1972 Oval Office chat, Mr. Nixon told Mr. Kissinger:
''Let's be perfectly cold-blooded about it.... I look at the tide of history out there, South Vietnam probably is never gonna survive anyway.... [C]an we have a viable foreign policy if a year from now or two years from now, North Vietnam gobbles up South Vietnam?''
Mr. Kissinger replied that American policy could remain viable if Saigon's collapse '' looks as if it's the result of South Vietnamese incompetence. If we now sell out in such a way that, say, in a three- to four-month period, we have pushed President Thieu over the brink.... it will worry everybody... So we've got to find some formula that holds the thing together a year or two, after which... no one will give a damn.''
Although Mr. Nixon and Mr. Kissinger had steeled themselves for the possibility of an eventual South Vietnamese collapse, they hoped it could be avoided and did what they could to prevent it. And had events in Washington played out differently -- with Watergate not crippling the administration and with Congress less hell-bent on slamming the door behind the departing ground troops -- they might have succeeded.
Mr. Obama does not have a Watergate to contend with, nor does he face a passionately antiwar Congress. And his opponents on the battlefield don't have the capabilities or support the North Vietnamese did. Without these stumbling blocks, he should be able to pull off a Nixonian strategy in Afghanistan. But this will involve more than simply tinkering with the number of troops being pulled out. It will mean denying what is going on, aggressively covering the retreat and staying after leaving.
THE first rule of withdrawal is you do not talk about withdrawal. You may agree with the doves about the value of exiting, but you should respect the hawks' fears about what will happen once people realize what you are doing. You must deflect attention from the true state of affairs, doing everything you can to keep your foes and even your friends in the dark as long as possible.
The second rule of withdrawal is to lay down suppressive fire so the enemy cannot rush into the gap you leave behind. The Nixon administration was brutal and ham-fisted about this, using secret bombing runs along the Ho Chi Minh Trail and expeditions into Cambodia and Laos to buy time and space for its ''Vietnamization'' programs to work. Thanks to technological advances, the Obama administration can do the same thing while incurring far fewer human, financial, legal and political costs. Drone attacks and raids against enemy targets in Pakistani sanctuaries today are a precision replay of actions in Cambodia and Laos, but more effective and less controversial.
The third rule of withdrawal is to remain engaged, providing enough support to beleaguered local partners so they can fend off collapse for as long as possible. Withdrawal should be defined as the removal of ground forces from direct combat, not the abandonment of the country in question.
The Nixon administration tried to do this, and its success in stopping North Vietnam's Easter offensive in 1972 showed that it could work. But once American troops and prisoners came home, few displayed any appetite for reengagement. Congress ordered an end to all military operations in Southeast Asia and cut aid to Saigon, making its eventual collapse a foregone conclusion. A weakened Nixon and his novice successor could do little to help their erstwhile allies in Saigon, even if they had wanted to.
Unlike Mr. Nixon, however, Mr. Obama is relatively popular and widely trusted. He has gained credibility on national security thanks to the killing of Osama bin Laden. Congress is obsessed with domestic economic issues rather than foreign policy and deferential rather than hostile to military leaders -- who themselves support staying engaged in Afghanistan.
Such a favorable domestic environment is matched by a relatively favorable international one, in which America's ability to project power remains strong and most of the world shuns radical jihadists. Should Mr. Obama seek to fend off a complete enemy victory in Afghanistan even after most American combat forces leave, he should be able to succeed -- at least until, as Mr. Kissinger put it, no one gives a damn.
Having tired of the fight in Afghanistan, the United States now has to perform political triage, deciding what goals are still worth fighting for and how they can be achieved.
In Vietnam, Mr. Nixon and Mr. Kissinger sought to extricate the United States from a war even as the local combatants continued to struggle. The Obama administration should try to do the same in Afghanistan -- while planning carefully for how to keep withdrawal from turning into defeat.
Correction: July 3, 2011, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An opinion article on June 26 about the path the Obama administration should take in withdrawing from Afghanistan incorrectly described the end of Richard M. Nixon's presidency. He resigned; he was not impeached.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Nixon conferred with Henry A. Kissinger, right, after Mr. Kissinger's return from secret negotiations in Paris. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS, NOV. 25, 1972) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); TALIBAN (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (55%); PEACE PROCESS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RICHARD NIXON (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); VIET NAM (90%); VIETNAM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2011



1002 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Tea Party Plans Its Own Debt Panel

BYLINE: KATE ZERNIKE


HIGHLIGHT: A Tea Party debt commission plans to hold hearings over the summer, in the hopes of delivering recommendations to lawmakers by January.

 BODY:
While the Tea Party movement has led the charge for cutting the national debt, its supporters have often struggled to explain how, exactly, they would do so.
Now some are out to change that, joining a Tea Party debt commission that plans to hold hearings over the summer, in the hopes of delivering recommendations to lawmakers by January. 
The commission is being organized by FreedomWorks, the libertarian advocacy group that helped grow the Tea Party movement and mobilize it for the midterm elections. And its recommendations are likely to line up with the goals of that group, which in turn tend to reflect those of libertarian organizations like the Cato Institute. (FreedomWorks' motto is Lower Taxes, Less Government, More Freedom, and it has worked against environmental regulations and for increased privatization of health care.) 
"If you look if you look at the landscape in Washington, D.C., there's a lot of Democrats who control two-thirds of the process who are now sitting on their hands, waiting to point fingers at Republicans who propose something, and there's too many Republicans who are afraid that the public won't understand a serious proposal to solve the budget deficit," said Matt Kibbe, the group's president."We think, like with the first days of the Tea Party movement, that the only way we will ever reduce the debt and balance the budget is if America beats Washington and Tea Party activists take over this process, take over the public debate and engage the American people in the hard work of making tough choices."
FreedomWorks held training for about 150 activists from 30 states at its headquarters in Washington over the weekend, with sessions dedicated to educating them about the budget proposals by Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky and Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, both Republicans who strongly embrace libertarian economic principles.
The activists, along with FreedomWorks staff, came up with parameters for their budget proposals, declaring that they would have to balance the federal budget within 10 years, reduce federal spending to 18 percent of the gross domestic product, reduce the national debt to no more than 66 percent of the G.D.P., assume that revenue accounts for no more than 19 percent of the G.D.P., reduce federal spending by at least $300 billion in the first year and reduce federal spending by at least $9 trillion over 10 years. 
All this is a tall order; for example, the debt now equals nearly 100 percent of the gross domestic product. And with its limits on revenue - and the politics behind those limits - it is unlikely that the Tea Party commission will allow anything that looks like a tax increase.The commission, to be formally announced Monday, is intended as a rebuke to the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform that President Obama named, which delivered its recommendations last year. Those recommendations were met with generally negative reviews from both parties, who were unwilling to make the sacrifices that were called for. But the Tea Party commission is modeled after President Obama's, in one way - it, too, will have 18 members (though this one is unlikely to be bipartisan, as the president's was). 
The members will be chosen from 18 swing states, and will hold hearings in those states over the summer, Mr. Kibbe said. 
It will also have a strong crowd-sourcing component, much like the Contract From America, which Tea Party activists created, wiki-style, as a kind of manifesto for the midterms. (Those ideas had some influence: the rules that House Republicans passed after the Tea Party victories in the midterms included a requirement, lifted from the contract, that all new legislation had to cite the specific provision of the Constitution that authorized it.) The commission will solicit ideas and have people vote on them at a website, teapartydebtcommission.com.
It aims to have proposals ready by January, when the presidential campaign will draw even more attention to economic proposals.
Mr. Kibbe said that his group hopes the commission will present its ideas to the Tea Party caucus in the House and Senate at hearings in the winter.

        
Congress Returns to Questions on Libya and Budget
        
Obama Seeks to Restart Budget Talks
        
On Debt Talks, Now It's Obama and Boehner
        
Why All the Scorn for Huntsman?
        
Can Huntsman Be Civil to Obama and Win?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (94%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); TAX LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ELECTIONS (73%) budget; Tea party; Federal Budget (US); National Debt (US); Politics and Government; Tea Party Movement; FreedomWorks; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOMWORKS (93%); CATO INSTITUTE (57%) FreedomWorks

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); RAND PAUL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1003 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Wrong Wrong Wrong

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: About Reagan's tax hike.

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett points out something I had forgotten: the 1993 Clinton tax increase wasn't the first time conservatives predicted doom from any rise in tax rates. They did the same in response to the Reagan tax hike of 1982 -- and yes, the sainted Reagan, after cutting taxes at the beginning, raised them repeatedly thereafter. 
What actually happened, of course, was a V-shaped recovery -- Morning in America -- which was mainly due to Fed policy, but got credited to the 1981 tax cut. And the 1982 tax hike got sent down the memory hole.
The story I knew was about that Clinton tax hike, which was supposed to send the economy into a tailspin.
Let's also mention the Bush tax cuts, which were supposed to produce a vast boom, and ended up being followed by the weakest recovery of modern times.
The point is that these people have been wrong about everything -- and yet tax-cut magic is the official religion of the GOP.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); CONSERVATISM (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1004 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Talk of President Cuomo? 2016 Is a Long Way Off

BYLINE: MICHAEL POWELL


HIGHLIGHT: With abundant praise for his political skills after the passage of gay marriage legislation, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is being talked about with new fervor.

 BODY:
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo took the hero's stroll down Fifth Avenue Sunday, his reception from the Gay Pride masses somewhere between loving and rapturous. And who could argue?
This Red Bull of a politician harnessed great poll numbers and notable legislative successes to pursuit of an issue of high principle: Extending rights to gays and lesbians that are accorded to the rest of society. (Complete equality arrives only with changes in federal law, which in turn depends on President Obama and his "evolving" views of gay marriage).
As Michael Barbaro points out in a beautifully reported piece Sunday, Mr. Cuomo played this issue as if it were a Wurlitzer. He convinced fractious partisans of gay marriage to dance to his score and allowed state senators to come tip-toeing to a vote of principle (leading from behind tends to be their default position).
Governor Cuomo is an interesting cat. He has crafted an image as the Mechanic, as opposed to Dad, the Silver Tongued Liberal Orator. Talk principle and he turns the conversation to political calculation. If Mario loved St. Augustine, Andrew seems closer to Niccolo Machiavelli.
Yet in his ill-fated 2002 campaign, Mr. Cuomo championed New Yorkers serving hard-time under the harsh and arbitrary Rockefeller drug laws. Those laws were later reformed.
Now he pushed gay marriage through the sausage factory known as the New York State Legislature. That's a daily-double of social advancement.
This in turned has birthed the "Andrew Cuomo as Liberal God" chatter (He's a front-runner for 2016! Didja see his poll numbers in suburban Des Moines? Did I tell him how much I liked the color of his tie?).
Let's not panic.
First, 2016 is the political equivalent of a millennium off. Second, Andrew Cuomo knows well how quickly approval curdles, particularly if the national economy remains semi-comatose.
And some of his moves carry great risk. He championed property tax caps that could prove deeply problematic for local schools and services. He extended rent protections, which is sort of a victory except not so much. Incentives remain for landlords to churn apartments and make faux improvements.
Let me not wander too far into contrarian land. Literally millions of New Yorkers benefit from his grandest moment. But in politics, it remains a long way from here to there.
Life or Death, by 1,000 Cuts 
Spin is recreational in politics. So The Daily News headline (in fairness, echoing the overall tone of the coverage) proclaims of the city budget:
"Mayor Bloomberg holds on until foes fold on his budget goals"
Well, maybe.
If being mayor is about governing, we're left wondering what this one is about. His aides a few weeks ago made a reasonably persuasive case that New York City has too many fire stations - fires are down historically, neighborhood demographics have changed, and so on. They sounded earnest except not really, as they backed off when the fire union blustered and community boards caterwauled.
The teachers presented the opposite challenge. To lay off 4,000 or so teachers never made public policy sense. Class sizes already are on the rise, as the Independent Budget Office pointed out in a smart piece of analysis in May. The population is growing, and more schools and more teachers are needed.
Mayoral aides claim the teachers union blinked and coughed up $60 million or so. Okay, but that came in the fiscal margins. Over the years, the mayor has handed out rather sweet contracts to the teachers unions and gotten little back.
And in a city gilded at its Manhattan core, Mr. Bloomberg did not champion a single tax increase. So his straitened budget could force some libraries to curtail hours as demand surges. (The city's budget director suggested earlier this spring that libraries might be a Gutenberg artifact in a Web age - that same budget director might want to visit the Queens public library, where a majority of patrons on a recent day said they did not have computers at home, and where Bengali and Russian reading hours draw upwards of 100 children).
Family literacy, substance abuse, youth programs: The cuts are not horrific, but as Allison Sesso of the Human Services Council notes, continue a three-year whittling down. "When we look at the percentage of cuts this year it's not truly the full picture because these cuts are compounded on top of previous reductions," she said in an e-mail.
And 1,000 city employees will find themselves without jobs. They are among the lowest paid in, and they enter a sea filled with such unemployed.
Which brings us to the other side of the Hudson River, where Gov. Chris Christie chortles to a New York Times colleague (Matt Bai) that he's offering a national model. Last week he raised health and pension costs for union workers and yanked away their legal right to collectively bargain over health care.
"I've finally done what I said I would do when I got here," the governor told Mr. Bai, "which is to have somebody in this building advocating for the taxpayer, rather than advocating for the special-interest unions."
Definitional questions to the side (What's a "special interest union" and are the hedge funders who underwrite the governor's attacks on the teachers union special interest billionaires? Just asking.) Mr. Christie's claim draws a nod of assent from Mr. Bai, who is a careful observer of national politics.
Yet I wonder. Just a day later, in Albany, Governor Cuomo announced that he too had achieved a notable breakthrough on labor.
This agreement would reduce labor force, save $3.8 billion, and include worker furloughs and a three year wage freeze. Workers would pay more for health care. But no one would get laid off. And the punch line? Mr. Cuomo achieved all of this through collective bargaining with the union.
"Gotham Extra" is an occasional Web-only supplement to Michael Powell's "Gotham" column, which appears in the Tuesday newspaper.

        
Bloomberg Calls State Budget Deal an 'Outrage'
        
Cuomo Reaches Deal With Union to Avert Layoffs
        
In Opposition to Teacher Layoffs, de Blasio (and Wife) Take the Lead
        
In 'Bloombergville,' Budget Protesters Sleep In
        
Even Before Layoffs, Schools Lost 135 Arts Teachers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (91%); MARRIAGE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (86%); GOVERNORS (79%); ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); LAYOFFS (65%); CITIES (62%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (59%) Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo; Gov. Chris Christie; New York City budget; teacher layoffs; Bloomberg, Michael R; Christie, Christopher J; Cuomo, Andrew M; Politics and Government; Albany; City Hall; Elections; Gotham Extra; Schools

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (95%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (68%); BARACK OBAMA (57%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Christie, Christopher J; Cuomo, Andrew M

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1005 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; DRILLING DOWN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1906 words

HEADLINE: Behind Veneer, Doubt on Future Of Natural Gas

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA; Robbie Brown contributed reporting from Atlanta. Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
Energy companies have worked hard to promote the idea that natural gas is the fossil fuel of tomorrow, and they have found reliable allies among policy makers in Washington.
''The potential for natural gas is enormous,'' President Obama said in a speech this year, having cited it as an issue on which Democrats and Republicans can agree.
The Department of Energy boasts in news releases about helping jump-start the boom in drilling by financing some research that made it possible to tap the gas trapped in shale formations deep underground.
In its annual forecasting reports, the United States Energy Information Administration, a division of the Energy Department, has steadily increased its estimates of domestic supplies of natural gas, and investors and the oil and gas industry have repeated them widely to make their case about a prosperous future. 
But not everyone in the Energy Information Administration agrees. In scores of internal e-mails and documents, officials within the Energy Information Administration, or E.I.A., voice skepticism about the shale gas industry.
One official says the shale industry may be ''set up for failure.'' ''It is quite likely that many of these companies will go bankrupt,'' a senior adviser to the Energy Information Administration administrator predicts. Several officials echo concerns raised during previous bubbles, in housing and in technology stocks, for example, that ended in a bust.
Energy Information Administration employees also explain in e-mails and documents, copies of which were obtained by The New York Times, that industry estimates might overstate the amount of gas that companies can affordably get out of the ground.
They discuss the uncertainties about how long the wells will be productive as well as the high prices some companies paid during the land rush to lease mineral rights. They also raise concerns about the unpredictability of shale gas drilling.
One senior Energy Information Administration official describes an ''irrational exuberance'' around shale gas. An internal Energy Information Administration document says companies have exaggerated ''the appearance of shale gas well profitability,'' are highlighting the performance of only their best wells and may be using overly optimistic models for projecting the wells' productivity over the next several decades.
While there are environmental and economic benefits to natural gas compared with other fossil fuels, its widespread popularity as an energy source is relatively new. As a result, it has not received the same level of scrutiny, according to some environmentalists and energy economists.
The Energy Information Administration e-mails indicate that some of these difficult questions are being raised.
''Am I just totally crazy, or does it seem like everyone and their mothers are endorsing shale gas without getting a really good understanding of the economics at the business level?'' an energy analyst at the Energy Information Administration wrote in an April 27 e-mail to a colleague.
Another e-mail expresses similar doubts. ''I agree with your concerns regarding the euphoria for shale gas and oil,''wrote a senior officialin the forecasting division of the Energy Information Administration in an April 13 e-mail to a colleague at the administration.
''We might be in a 'gold rush' wherein a few folks have developed 'monster' wells,'' he wrote, ''so everyone assumes that all the wells will be 'monsters.' ''
The Energy Information Administration's annual reports are widely followed by investors, companies and policy makers because they are considered scientifically rigorous and independent from industry. They also inform legislators' initiatives. Congress, for example, has been considering major subsidies to promote vehicles fueled by natural gas and cutting taxes for the industry.
In any organization as big as the Energy Information Administration, with its 370 or so employees, there inevitably will be differences of opinion, particularly in private e-mails shared among colleagues. A spokesman for the agency said that it stands by its reports, and that it has been clear about the uncertainties of shale gas production.
''One guiding principle that we employ is, 'look at the data,' '' said Michael Schaal, director of the Office of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels Analysis within the Energy Information Administration. ''It is clear the data shows that shale gas has become a significant source of domestic natural gas supply.''
But the doubts and concerns expressed in the e-mails and correspondence obtained by The Times are noteworthy because they are shared by many employees, some of them in senior roles. The documents and e-mails, which were provided to The Times by industry consultants, federal energy officials and Congressional researchers, show skepticism about shale gas economics, sometimes even from senior agency officials.
The e-mails were provided by several people to The Times under the condition that the names of those sending and receiving them would not be used.
Some of the e-mails suggest frustrations among the staff members in their attempt to push for a more accurate discussion of shale gas. One federal analyst, describing an Energy Information Administration publication on shale gas, complained that the administration shared the industry's optimism. ''It seems that science is pointing in one direction and industry PR is pointing in another,'' wrote the analyst about shale gas drilling in an e-mail. ''We still have to present the middle, even if the middle neglects to point out the strengths of scientific evidence over PR.''
The Energy Information Administration, with its mission of providing ''independent and impartial energy information to promote sound policymaking'' and ''efficient markets,'' was created in response to the energy crisis of the 1970s because lawmakers believed that sound data could help the country avoid similar crises in the future.
As a protection from industry or political pressure, the Energy Information Administration's reports, by law, are supposed to be independent and do not require approval by any other arm of government.
Its administrator, Richard G. Newell, who announced this month his plans to resign to take a job at Duke University, has hailed the prospects for shale gas, calling it a ''game changer'' in the United States energy mix. ''The energy outlook for natural gas has changed dramatically over the past several years,'' Mr. Newell told the Natural Gas Roundtable, a nonprofit group tied to the American Gas Association. ''The most significant story is the transformative role played by shale gas.''
A number of factors have also helped create more interest in shale gas. The nuclear disaster in Japan in March has focused attention on the promise of natural gas as a safer energy source.
And last year, as energy market analysts warned about tougher federal regulations on oil and coal, particularly after the BP oil spill and the Massey coal mining accident, they also pointed to natural gas as a more attractive investment.
But a look at the Energy Information Administration's methods raises questions about its independence from energy companies, since the industry lends a helping hand to the government to compile those bullish reports.
The Energy Information Administration, for example, relies on research from outside consultants with ties to the industry. And some of those consultants pull the data they supply to the government from energy company news releases, according to Energy Information Administration e-mails. Projections about future supplies of natural gas are based not just on science but also some guesswork and modeling.
Two of the primary contractors, Intek and Advanced Resources International, provided shale gas estimates and data for the Energy Information Administration's major annual forecasting reports on domestic and foreign oil and gas resources. Both of them have major clients in the oil and gas industry, according to corporate tax records from the contractors. The president of Advanced Resources, Vello A. Kuuskraa, is also a stockholder and board member of Southwestern Energy, an energy company heavily involved in drilling for gas in the Fayetteville shale formation in Arkansas.
The contractors said they did not see any conflict of interest. ''Firstly, the report is an extremely transparent assessment,'' said Tyler Van Leeuwen, an analyst at Advanced Resources, adding that many experts agreed with its conclusions and that by identifying promising areas, the report heightened competition for Southwestern.
Intek verified that it produced data for Energy Information Administration reports but declined to comment on questions about whether, given its ties to industry, it had a conflict of interest.
Some government watchdog groups, however, faulted the Energy Information Administration for not maintaining more independence from industry.
''E.I.A.'s heavy reliance on industry for their analysis fundamentally undermines the agency's mission to provide independent expertise,'' said Danielle Brian, the executive director of the Project on Government Oversight, a group that investigates federal agencies and Congress.
''The Chemical Safety Board and the National Transportation Safety Board both show that government agencies can conduct complex, niche analysis without being captured or heavily relying upon industry expertise,'' Ms. Brian added, referring to two independent federal agencies that conduct investigations of accidents.
These sorts of concerns have also led to complaints within the administration itself.
In an April 27 e-mail, a senior petroleum geologist who works for the Energy Information Administration wrote that upper management relied too heavily on outside contractors and used ''incomplete/selective and all too often unreal data,'' much of which comes from industry news releases
''E.I.A., irrespective of what or how many 'specialty' contractors are hired, is NOT TECHNICALLY COMPETENT to estimate the undiscovered resources of anything made by Mother Nature, period,'' he wrote.
Energy officials have also quietly criticized in internal e-mails the department's shale gas primer, a source of information for the public, saying it may be ''on the rosy side.''
The primer is written by the Ground Water Protection Council, a research group that, according to tax records, is partly financed by industry.
The Ground Water Protection Council declined to respond to questions.
Tiffany Edwards, a spokeswoman for the Department of Energy, said that the shale gas primer was never intended as a comprehensive review and that further study was continuing.
Asked about the views expressed in the internal e-mails, Mr. Schaal says his administration has been very explicit in acknowledging the uncertainties surrounding shale gas development.
He said news reports and company presentations were included among a range of information sources used in Energy Information Administration studies. Though the administration depends on contractors with specialized expertise, he added, it conforms with all relevant federal rules.
And while production from shale gas has not slowed down and may not any time soon, he said, a lively debate continues within the administration about shale gas prospects.
DRILLING DOWN: Articles in this series are examining the risks of natural gas drilling and efforts to regulate this rapidly growing industry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A drilling operation in Texas. In documents, Energy Information Administration officials voice skepticism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHY CHRUSCIELSKI)
E.I.A. officials point to costly gas leases, signed before the selling price of natural gas fell, as a reason companies may face bankruptcy.
A federal energy official explains that some shale gas companies have found themselves in a financial bind.
 An internal E.I.A. document warns shale gas wells might be less productive and profitable than data used by federal forecasters suggest. (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (91%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (79%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MINERAL LEASES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); HOUSING BUBBLE (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1006 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.02 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.07 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.01 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
TUESDAY
Northeastern Illinois Regional Transportation Authority, $100 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
University of Washington, $214 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Authority, $118.4 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
California Infrastructure and Development Bank, $150 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
Florida, $900 million of Citizens Property Insurance Corporation bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Gwinnett County, Ga., Water and Sewerage Authority, $163.4 million of revenue refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Houston, $499 million of airport system revenue refinancing bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Los Angeles, $120 million of sanitation revenue refinancing bonds. Bank of America.
New York, $975 million of tobacco settlement financing bonds. Barclays Capital Markets.
Ohio, $160 million of hospital revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Onondaga County, N.Y., $50 million of Syracuse University revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Orlando-Orange County, Fla., Expressway Authority, $290 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
Pittsburg, Calif., Unified School District Finance Authority, $60 million of general obligation revenue bonds. George K. Baum.
Puerto Rico, $304 million of public improvement general obligations bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
San Francisco Airport Commission, $300 million of airport revenue refinancing bonds. Barclays Capital.
Stark County, Ohio, $51 million of school improvement refinancing bonds. Stifel, Nicolaus.
Texas, $62 million of independent school district bonds. Morgan Keegan.
Travis County, Tex., Independent School District, $73 million of school building refinancing bonds. BOSC.
University of Missouri, $130 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Bank of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (88%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); SCHOOL BONDS (74%); AIRPORT OPERATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (67%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (53%); HOSPITALS (51%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1007 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: Coal and Electricity

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''A.E.P. Protests Too Much'' (editorial, June 20) , calling American Electric Power cynical, was dismissive of the 600 A.E.P. workers who stand to lose their jobs years ahead of schedule because of the Environmental Protection Agency's proposed regulations. While a few more years on the job may not seem like much to you, I am sure that the 600 workers and their families feel differently. 
A.E.P. and its workers are not alone in their struggle. According to a recent initial National Economic Research Associates analysis, two of E.P.A.'s proposed regulations would increase the cost of energy by up to 24 percent in parts of the country, and could destroy significant numbers of jobs.
There is a reason coal generates nearly half of our nation's electricity: because it's affordable, abundant, reliable and increasingly clean. We need energy policies that take advantage of coal's importance to the United States, not diminish it.
STEVE MILLER President and Chief Executive American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity Alexandria, Va., June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAYOFFS (72%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (58%); NATIONAL ECONOMIC RESEARCH ASSOCIATES INC (57%)

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1008 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Beyond New York, Gay Marriage Faces Hurdles

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
ALBANY -- After a string of defeats in recent years from California to Maine, the movement to legalize same-sex marriage is hoping its unexpected victory in New York will revive efforts to legalize gay weddings around the nation.
But the movement's success here could prove difficult to replicate. Twenty-nine states have constitutional bans on same-sex marriage, while 12 others have laws against it. And many of those states where support for same-sex marriage is high have already acted on the issue.
Officials at several gay-rights organizations said they would seek to move quickly in Maryland, where legislation to legalize same-sex marriage was shelved in February by Democratic leaders concerned that it lacked the support to pass.
Advocates also said they hoped to resuscitate a marriage bill that died in the Rhode Island legislature this year. 
Gay-rights groups are likely to seek ballot initiatives next year to overturn bans on same-sex marriage in Maine, where the Legislature approved a same-sex marriage law in 2009 that voters almost immediately turned back, and in Oregon.
Advocates hope, in the longer term, to win the legalization of same-sex marriage in Delaware and New Jersey, two states where Democrats control the legislatures, as well as in Pennsylvania.
''The fundamental issue here is American public opinion,'' said Fred Sainz, a spokesman for the Human Rights Campaign, a national gay-rights organization. ''The outcome in New York will be tremendously impactful in shaping the rest of the debate.''
The vote on Friday in New York, home of the nation's economic and cultural capital, carries enormous symbolic importance for the same-sex-marriage movement, particularly after its defeat, with Proposition 8, three years ago in California.
New York is now the sixth and largest state in the country where gay couples will be able to wed legally; when the state's law goes into effect in late July, twice as many Americans will live in jurisdictions where same-sex marriage is permitted.
But beyond symbolism, gay-rights advocates said that New York had provided them with a new political model.
''They've shown a way to actually get a bill through a Legislature,'' said Richard S. Madaleno Jr., a Democratic state senator in Maryland and sponsor of the marriage bill that was shelved. ''And I think we're going to use some of the same lessons, the same tactics, in Maryland over the next six months.''
Mr. Madaleno, in a telephone interview on Saturday, said Maryland gay-rights advocates had failed to mount the kind of vigorous, multimillion-dollar grass-roots campaign that their allies in New York ran this spring. Nor had they pressed the state's Democratic governor, Martin O'Malley, to deploy his own political capital and muscle on their behalf, as Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo did in New York.
''We had not done as good a job beating the bushes in districts as they did in New York,'' Mr. Madaleno said. ''Our hope is that not only will our legislature take a cue from our colleagues in Albany, but that our governor might as well.''
Perhaps the most striking shift in Albany was the role played by Republican lawmakers in the State Senate. Republican senators voted unanimously against same-sex marriage two years ago, when they were in the minority; this year, with a majority in the chamber, they not only allowed the marriage bill to come to the floor, but also provided the final votes necessary to approve it. The decision by 4 Republicans to join 29 Democrats to push the measure through the 62-seat Senate marked the first time in the nation that a legislative body controlled by Republicans approved either same-sex marriages or civil unions, advocates said.
That shift was precipitated by the emergence of a growing constituency of pro-gay-marriage operatives and donors in the Republican Party, whose direction on social issues is still largely set by its culturally conservative base.
''There is an important change going on among Republicans and conservatives,'' said Kenneth B. Mehlman, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee.
Mr. Mehlman, who acknowledged his own homosexuality after his tenure at the national committee had ended, was among a group of Republicans who helped raise money from prominent Republican donors to support the same-sex marriage effort in Albany. Those donors underwrote much of the cost of the same-sex marriage advocates' advertising and lobbying campaigns.
Among increasing numbers of conservatives and Republicans, he said, there is the conviction ''that freedom to marry is consistent with conservative values.''
Same-sex marriage is currently allowed in Connecticut, the District of Columbia, Iowa, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Vermont. Maryland, New York and Rhode Island recognize same-sex marriages performed in other states.
Some polls have suggested that public opinion, nationally, is shifting in favor of same-sex marriage. The Gallup Poll found in May that 53 percent of Americans believed that the law should recognize such unions. It was the first time that Gallup found a majority of Americans supporting same-sex marriage; the support was strongest among those between ages 18 and 34, and significantly weaker among those 55 and older.
Gay-rights advocates said they believed their victory in New York would have a powerful ripple effect on the intensifying legal and political debate over the rights of gays and lesbians in society. ''Judges are not immune to politics,'' Bill Smith, the deputy executive director of the Gill Action Fund, a national gay-rights advocacy organization, said. ''They watch what's going on.''
''When they see a pitched battle and progress like we've seen in New York,'' he added, ''it matters. Washington is always the slowest to move, but it matters there, too.''
Opponents of same-sex marriage said they were confident that public opinion was behind them and that the circumstances in New York were unique and would not be duplicated.
State referendums and initiatives to outlaw same-sex marriage have had limited success at the ballot box. In 2006 Arizona voters defeated a measure that would have banned a broad range of same-sex partnerships -- including marriage. Then, in 2008 they approved a narrower measure banning same-sex marriage only.
A proposal to ban same-sex marriage will go before Minnesota voters next year, and North Carolina lawmakers are seeking to put a similar amendment on their state's ballot, putting gay-rights groups on the defensive as they look for momentum elsewhere in the country.
And at the federal level, while advocates are pressing in court to overturn the Defense of Marriage Act, which prohibits the United States government from recognizing same-sex marriage, there is little prospect of repeal by Congress should they fail.
Brian S. Brown, president of the National Organization for Marriage, which opposes same-sex marriage, questioned the effect of the New York vote.
''The fact is,'' he said, ''we've won every single vote of the people on the marriage issue.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (95%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (95%); MARRIAGE (94%); MARRIAGE LAW (92%); LGBT RIGHTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); COHABITATION (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); GOVERNORS (71%); BALLOTS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); INTERVIEWS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (54%)

PERSON: MARTIN O'MALLEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1009 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1453 words

HEADLINE: Across Europe, Irking Drivers Is Urban Policy

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
ZURICH -- While American cities are synchronizing green lights to improve traffic flow and offering apps to help drivers find parking, many European cities are doing the opposite: creating environments openly hostile to cars. The methods vary, but the mission is clear -- to make car use expensive and just plain miserable enough to tilt drivers toward more environmentally friendly modes of transportation.
Cities including Vienna to Munich and Copenhagen have closed vast swaths of streets to car traffic. Barcelona and Paris have had car lanes eroded by popular bike-sharing programs. Drivers in London and Stockholm pay hefty congestion charges just for entering the heart of the city. And over the past two years, dozens of German cities have joined a national network of ''environmental zones'' where only cars with low carbon dioxide emissions may enter.
Likeminded cities welcome new shopping malls and apartment buildings but severely restrict the allowable number of parking spaces. On-street parking is vanishing. In recent years, even former car capitals like Munich have evolved into ''walkers' paradises,'' said Lee Schipper, a senior research engineer at Stanford University who specializes in sustainable transportation. 
''In the United States, there has been much more of a tendency to adapt cities to accommodate driving,'' said Peder Jensen, head of the Energy and Transport Group at the European Environment Agency. ''Here there has been more movement to make cities more livable for people, to get cities relatively free of cars.''
To that end, the municipal Traffic Planning Department here in Zurich has been working overtime in recent years to torment drivers. Closely spaced red lights have been added on roads into town, causing delays and angst for commuters. Pedestrian underpasses that once allowed traffic to flow freely across major intersections have been removed. Operators in the city's ever expanding tram system can turn traffic lights in their favor as they approach, forcing cars to halt.
Around Lowenplatz, one of Zurich's busiest squares, cars are now banned on many blocks. Where permitted, their speed is limited to a snail's pace so that crosswalks and crossing signs can be removed entirely, giving people on foot the right to cross anywhere they like at any time.
As he stood watching a few cars inch through a mass of bicycles and pedestrians, the city's chief traffic planner, Andy Fellmann, smiled. ''Driving is a stop-and-go experience,'' he said. ''That's what we like! Our goal is to reconquer public space for pedestrians, not to make it easy for drivers.''
While some American cities -- notably San Francisco, which has ''pedestrianized'' parts of Market Street -- have made similar efforts, they are still the exception in the United States, where it has been difficult to get people to imagine a life where cars are not entrenched, Dr. Schipper said.
Europe's cities generally have stronger incentives to act. Built for the most part before the advent of cars, their narrow roads are poor at handling heavy traffic. Public transportation is generally better in Europe than in the United States, and gas often costs over $8 a gallon, contributing to driving costs that are two to three times greater per mile than in the United States, Dr. Schipper said.
What is more, European Union countries probably cannot meet a commitment under the Kyoto Protocol to reduce their carbon dioxide emissions unless they curb driving. The United States never ratified that pact.
Globally, emissions from transportation continue a relentless rise, with half of them coming from personal cars. Yet an important impulse behind Europe's traffic reforms will be familiar to mayors in Los Angeles and Vienna alike: to make cities more inviting, with cleaner air and less traffic.
Michael Kodransky, global research manager at the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy in New York, which works with cities to reduce transport emissions, said that Europe was previously ''on the same trajectory as the United States, with more people wanting to own more cars.'' But in the past decade, there had been ''a conscious shift in thinking, and firm policy,'' he said. And it is having an effect.
After two decades of car ownership, Hans Von Matt, 52, who works in the insurance industry, sold his vehicle and now gets around Zurich by tram or bicycle, using a car-sharing service for trips out of the city. Carless households have increased from 40 to 45 percent in the last decade, and car owners use their vehicles less, city statistics show.
''There were big fights over whether to close this road or not -- but now it is closed, and people got used to it,'' he said, alighting from his bicycle on Limmatquai, a riverside pedestrian zone lined with cafes that used to be two lanes of gridlock. Each major road closing has to be approved in a referendum.
Today 91 percent of the delegates to the Swiss Parliament take the tram to work.
Still, there is grumbling. ''There are all these zones where you can only drive 20 or 30 kilometers per hour [about 12 to 18 miles an hour], which is rather stressful,'' Thomas Rickli, a consultant, said as he parked his Jaguar in a lot at the edge of town. ''It's useless.''
Urban planners generally agree that a rise in car commuting is not desirable for cities anywhere.
Mr. Fellmann calculated that a person using a car took up 115 cubic meters (roughly 4,000 cubic feet) of urban space in Zurich while a pedestrian took three. ''So it's not really fair to everyone else if you take the car,'' he said.
European cities also realized they could not meet increasingly strict World Health Organization guidelines for fine-particulate air pollution if cars continued to reign. Many American cities are likewise in ''nonattainment'' of their Clean Air Act requirements, but that fact ''is just accepted here,'' said Mr. Kodransky of the New York-based transportation institute.
It often takes extreme measures to get people out of their cars, and providing good public transportation is a crucial first step. One novel strategy in Europe is intentionally making it harder and more costly to park. ''Parking is everywhere in the United States, but it's disappearing from the urban space in Europe,'' said Mr. Kodransky, whose recent report ''Europe's Parking U-Turn'' surveys the shift.
Sihl City, a new Zurich mall, is three times the size of Brooklyn's Atlantic Mall but has only 225 more parking spaces than Atlantic's 625, and as a result, 70 percent of visitors get there by public transport, Mr. Kodransky said.
In Copenhagen, Mr. Jensen, at the European Environment Agency, said that his office building had more than 150 spaces for bicycles and only one for a car, to accommodate a disabled person.
While many building codes in Europe cap the number of parking spaces in new buildings to discourage car ownership, American codes conversely tend to stipulate a minimum number. New apartment complexes built along the light rail line in Denver devote their bottom eight floors to parking, making it ''too easy'' to get in the car rather than take advantage of rail transit, Mr. Kodransky said.
While Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has generated controversy in New York by ''pedestrianizing'' a few areas like Times Square, many European cities have already closed vast areas to car traffic. Store owners in Zurich had worried that the closings would mean a drop in business, but that fear has proved unfounded, Mr. Fellmann said, because pedestrian traffic increased 30 to 40 percent where cars were banned.
With politicians and most citizens still largely behind them, Zurich's planners continue their traffic-taming quest, shortening the green-light periods and lengthening the red with the goal that pedestrians wait no more than 20 seconds to cross.
''We would never synchronize green lights for cars with our philosophy,'' said Pio Marzolini, a city official. ''When I'm in other cities, I feel like I'm always waiting to cross a street. I can't get used to the idea that I am worth less than a car.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 7, 2011

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 27 about efforts to reduce traffic in European cities, using information from a transportation researcher, misstated the number of parking spaces for cars at Sihl City, a new shopping mall in Zurich, relative to the number at Atlantic Mall in Brooklyn. Sihl City has 850 spaces and Atlantic Mall has 625; Sihl City does not have half as many as Atlantic Mall. The article also misspelled, in some copies, the name of one of the busiest squares in Zurich where cars are banned on some blocks. It is Lowenplatz, not Lovenplatz.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pedestrians and trams are given priority treatment in Zurich. Tram operators can turn traffic lights in their favor as they approach, forcing cars to halt.
 A view of Zurich's Limmatquai, a riverside pedestrian zone that used to be two lanes of gridlock. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPH BANGERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (89%); CITIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); EMISSIONS (71%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (69%); RETAILERS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); GERMANY (58%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011



1010 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: No Resolution for Mixed Martial Arts

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

 BODY:
In the friendly confines of a fight cage, few mixed martial arts bouts last even three minutes.
In Albany, the clash will not end.
With the legislative session having ended, a bill to legalize the sport in New York has, once again, been relegated to limbo status. Last month, for the second straight year, the proposed legislation cleared the State Senate. It also passed with the Assembly's Tourism, Parks, Arts and Sports Development Committee but never reached a vote before the Ways and Means Committee.
''It's a promotion of violence at a time when we're trying to eliminate violence,'' said Assemblyman Bob Reilly, a Democrat from Clifton Park and opponent of legalization since the bill's introduction in 2008. 
For years, concern about the sport's violence -- some likened it to ''human cockfighting'' -- caused a number of states, including New York, to officially shun it. But powered by the Ultimate Fighting Championship, the foremost international promoter of mixed martial arts, the sport has achieved wider popularity and, in some circles, mainstream acceptance over the past half-decade.
Forty-five states now sanction mixed martial arts. New York, Vermont and Connecticut do not, though events are often held at casino resorts on Connecticut's Indian reservations. Alaska and Wyoming do not have sanctioning bodies.
Fans of the sport and supporters of the bill have pointed to the potential economic benefits of legalization for the state, particularly at a time of great fiscal turmoil. According to a study commissioned by the U.F.C., holding two events in the state -- one at Madison Square Garden, one in Buffalo -- could generate over $15 million in revenue.
''New Jersey is making all the money off this, and we've got nothing,'' said Carmine Zocchi, who teaches mixed martial arts and Brazilian jiu-jitsu classes on Eliot Avenue in Queens. ''I've got to travel to take my fighters to shows. We should have them in the best city in the world.''
But Mr. Reilly has contested his Assembly colleagues' claims about the economics of legalizing the sport. It might turn a profit, he says, just not for New York.
''Most of the money in sports today is in TV,'' he said, citing the pay-per-view status of many marquee U.F.C. fights. ''People would make money -- people in Las Vegas and the U.F.C.''
On a micro-level, though, local gyms have long hoped that the passage of a bill could bolster their bottom lines. Peggy Chau, who operates Fighthouse in TriBeCa, says legalization would create a ''domino effect.'' An event at Madison Square Garden would draw increased attention to the U.F.C., she says, which would lead to greater interest in mixed martial arts classes at all levels.
Still, opponents of the bill cite health and safety concerns associated with the sport. In light of recent research on head injuries in football and boxing, Mr. Reilly says, promoting a combat sport sends the wrong message.
''If we wanted to legalize professional boxing today, I don't think it would pass,'' Mr. Reilly said.
According to Mr. Zocchi, recent rule changes have ensured that the worst excesses of mixed martial arts -- eye-gouging and strikes to the back of the head or neck -- have no place in the sport. His fellow fighters say the threat of injury lingers in any contact-heavy competition.
''Everything is violence,'' said Marcelo Garcia, an expert in Brazilian jiu-jitsu with a background in mixed martial arts. ''They don't understand it's just another sport.''
Mr. Zocchi and Mr. Garcia also noted the social benefits of organized fighting in a city like New York -- benefits that would multiply, they say, with sanctioned competitions in the state.
Mr. Zocchi takes pride, he says, in taking undisciplined ''street fighters'' and teaching them the finer points of the sport: strategy, positioning, body control.
''People think it's this barbaric thing,'' he said. ''This stuff is harder than calculus.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Students training at the Carmine Zocchi Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Academy in Maspeth, Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARTIAL ARTS (94%); LEGISLATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PAY PER VIEW (78%); CASINOS (78%); SPORTS FANS (77%); RESORTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1011 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: 160 Million and Counting

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT. 
Paul Krugman is off today.

 BODY:
In 1990, the economist Amartya Sen published an essay in The New York Review of Books with a bombshell title: ''More Than 100 Million Women Are Missing.'' His subject was the wildly off-kilter sex ratios in India, China and elsewhere in the developing world. To explain the numbers, Sen invoked the ''neglect'' of third-world women, citing disparities in health care, nutrition and education. He also noted that under China's one-child policy, ''some evidence exists of female infanticide.''
The essay did not mention abortion. 
Twenty years later, the number of ''missing'' women has risen to more than 160 million, and a journalist named Mara Hvistendahl has given us a much more complete picture of what's happened. Her book is called ''Unnatural Selection: Choosing Boys Over Girls, and the Consequences of a World Full of Men.'' As the title suggests, Hvistendahl argues that most of the missing females weren't victims of neglect. They were selected out of existence, by ultrasound technology and second-trimester abortion.
The spread of sex-selective abortion is often framed as a simple case of modern science being abused by patriarchal, misogynistic cultures. Patriarchy is certainly part of the story, but as Hvistendahl points out, the reality is more complicated -- and more depressing.
Thus far, female empowerment often seems to have led to more sex selection, not less. In many communities, she writes, ''women use their increased autonomy to select for sons,'' because male offspring bring higher social status. In countries like India, sex selection began in ''the urban, well-educated stratum of society,'' before spreading down the income ladder.
Moreover, Western governments and philanthropic institutions have their fingerprints all over the story of the world's missing women.
From the 1950s onward, Asian countries that legalized and then promoted abortion did so with vocal, deep-pocketed American support. Digging into the archives of groups like the Rockefeller Foundation and the International Planned Parenthood Federation, Hvistendahl depicts an unlikely alliance between Republican cold warriors worried that population growth would fuel the spread of Communism and left-wing scientists and activists who believed that abortion was necessary for both ''the needs of women'' and ''the future prosperity -- or maybe survival -- of mankind,'' as the Planned Parenthood federation's medical director put it in 1976.
For many of these antipopulation campaigners, sex selection was a feature rather than a bug, since a society with fewer girls was guaranteed to reproduce itself at lower rates.
Hvistendahl's book is filled with unsettling scenes, from abandoned female fetuses littering an Indian hospital to the signs in Chinese villages at the height of the one-child policy's enforcement. (''You can beat it out! You can make it fall out! You can abort it! But you cannot give birth to it!'') The most disturbing passages, though, are the ones that depict self-consciously progressive Westerners persuading themselves that fewer girls might be exactly what the teeming societies of the third world needed.
Over all, ''Unnatural Selection'' reads like a great historical detective story, and it's written with the sense of moral urgency that usually accompanies the revelation of some enormous crime.
But what kind of crime? This is the question that haunts Hvistendahl's book, and the broader debate over the vanished 160 million.
The scale of that number evokes the genocidal horrors of the 20th century. But notwithstanding the depredations of the Chinese politburo, most of the abortions were (and continue to be) uncoerced. The American establishment helped create the problem, but now it's metastasizing on its own: the population-control movement is a shadow of its former self, yet sex selection has spread inexorably with access to abortion, and sex ratios are out of balance from Central Asia to the Balkans to Asian-American communities in the United States.
This places many Western liberals, Hvistendahl included, in a distinctly uncomfortable position. Their own premises insist that the unborn aren't human beings yet, and that the right to an abortion is nearly absolute. A self-proclaimed agnostic about when life begins, Hvistendahl insists that she hasn't written ''a book about death and killing.'' But this leaves her struggling to define a victim for the crime that she's uncovered.
It's society at large, she argues, citing evidence that gender-imbalanced countries tend to be violent and unstable. It's the women in those countries, she adds, pointing out that skewed sex ratios are associated with increased prostitution and sex trafficking.
These are important points. But the sense of outrage that pervades her story seems to have been inspired by the missing girls themselves, not the consequences of their absence.
Here the anti-abortion side has it easier. We can say outright what's implied on every page of ''Unnatural Selection,'' even if the author can't quite bring herself around.
The tragedy of the world's 160 million missing girls isn't that they're ''missing.'' The tragedy is that they're dead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); ABORTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (89%); CHARITIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (76%); MEN (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); JOURNALISM (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); INDIA (93%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1012 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Average Price For U.S. Gas Falls to $3.63

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The average price for regular gasoline at filling stations in the United States fell 11.22 cents to about $3.63 a gallon, according to the Lundberg Survey, a market research company. 
The price covers the two-week period that ended Friday and is derived from a survey of about 2,500 filling stations nationwide by Trilby Lundberg. She said that prices had dropped 37.2 cents a gallon since they hit almost $4 a gallon on average on May 8.
''The rate of decline was reduced in the latest two weeks, but we have yet to see the impact of the government sale of crude,'' Ms. Lundberg said Sunday.
Prices have fallen after member countries of the International Energy Agency said last week they would release 60 million barrels of oil from emergency stockpiles and on concern that the United States and European economies are weakening.
''If we suppose that crude oil prices fall another few dollars, then this could accelerate the drop another 20 cents'' for gasoline, Ms. Lundberg said. ''Poor economic news continues to be a factor in petroleum prices for crude and gasoline, with or without putting government oil up for bid.''
Separately, AAA reported this weekend that the number of Americans traveling by automobile during the Independence Day holiday would fall 3 percent to 32.8 million, from 33.7 million a year earlier.
Concern that the global economic recovery is sputtering was reflected in remarks by the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, that the United States recovery was proceeding ''somewhat more slowly'' than projected, prompting the Fed to maintain record monetary stimulus.
The Energy Department reported last week that gasoline stockpiles in the United States in the week that ended June 17 fell 464,000 barrels to 214.6 million. Wholesale demand fell 0.5 percent to 9.32 million barrels a day.
The highest price among cities surveyed in the 48 contiguous states on June 10 was in Chicago, at $4.06 a gallon. The lowest price, $3.32, was in Jackson, Miss., the Lundberg Survey said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAS STATIONS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1013 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data will include personal income and spending for May (Monday); S.& P./Case-Shiller housing price index for April and consumer confidence for June (Tuesday); Pending home sales for May (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims and the Chicago purchasing managers index for June (Thursday); and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for June, automakers report North American sales for June, the I.S.M. manufacturing index for June and construction spending for May (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting will include Nike (Monday); Family Dollar Stores, General Mills, KB Home and Monsanto (Wednesday); and Darden Restaurants (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner will meet with India's finance minister, Pranab Mukherjee, on Monday and Tuesday. On Wednesday, the International Monetary Fund will issue its annual assessment of the United States economy. On Wednesday, the Securities and Exchange Commission will hold a meeting to consider whether it should propose rules to establish business conduct standards for security-based swap dealers. On Thursday, the Senate Banking Committee will hold a hearing on the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
OVERSEAS On Tuesday, the Greek Parliament is scheduled to vote on austerity measures.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (65%); AUTOMAKERS (56%)

COMPANY: DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (70%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (68%); KB HOME CORP (57%); GENERAL MILLS INC (57%); FAMILY DOLLAR STORES INC (57%); MONSANTO CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: DRI (NYSE) (70%); KBH (NYSE) (57%); GIS (NYSE) (57%); FDO (NYSE) (57%); MON (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (70%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (70%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (68%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (68%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (57%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (57%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (57%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (57%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (57%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (57%)

PERSON: PRANAB MUKHERJEE (68%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); INDIA (79%); GREECE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1014 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
The Sara Lee Corporation, Downers Grove, Ill., named the Seattle office of Publicis Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe, as the creative agency for Ball Park frankfurters. The assignment had been handled by TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group, which continues to create campaigns for Sara Lee brands like Jimmy Dean and Hillshire Farms. Spending last year for Ball Park was estimated at $13.1 million. Sara Lee has recently expanded the Ball Park brand with new varieties like Angus and Deli Style. 
People
John F. Sturm said he would retire in September after 16 years as president and chief executive at the Newspaper Association of America, Arlington, Va. A successor is expected to be announced soon.
Mark Avnet joined 360i, New York, as dean of 360iU, the agency's new education center. He had most recently been professor and chairman of the creative technology track at the V.C.U. Brandcenter in the School of Mass Communications at Virginia Commonwealth University.
Miscellany
Facebook will pass Yahoo this year in market share in the United States in online display advertising revenue, according to a forecast by eMarketer, New York. Facebook, now second behind Yahoo, will pass Yahoo with 17.7 percent of the market in 2011, compared with 12.2 percent in 2010. Market share for Yahoo this year will total 13.1 percent, the forecast said, compared with 14.4 percent last year. Google, which was in third place last year, will continue in third place this year, according to eMarketer.
MDC Partners, Toronto, is again sponsoring an advertising contest with a $1 million prize. The agency announced last week what it is calling the Million-Dollar Technology Challenge, to find the next application of technology that will increase the effectiveness of the advertising, marketing and brand-building businesses. The agency announced in June 2010 a contest called the Million-Dollar Challenge, and awarded a $1 million prize in February to Kip Voytek, a specialist in interactive advertising, who proposed forming a national institute focused on education in digital arts and sciences.
Total spending in the United States for mobile advertising will grow to $4 billion in 2015, from $790 million in 2010, according to a forecast by BIA/Kelsey, Chantilly, Va.
David Ogilvy, who was born on June 23, 1911, was honored last week by Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP. The commemorations included a section of the agency's Web site, at ogilvy.com/do100; a hashtag on Twitter, #do100; and a red carpet unfurled the length of the Croissette in Cannes, France, where the international advertising festival was being held. The agency also reprinted and distributed a 32-page sales training manual for Aga cookers that was written by Mr. Ogilvy in 1935. WPP acquired the agency in 1989. Mr. Ogilvy died in 1999, at age 88.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BRANDING (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (74%); SALES & SELLING (73%); SALES TRAINING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (72%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (71%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (71%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); WEB SITES (60%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (95%); HILLSHIRE BRANDS CO (95%); TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (91%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); GOOGLE INC (90%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (56%); FACEBOOK INC (55%); MDC PARTNERS INC (54%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (95%); HSH (NYSE) (95%); HSH (LSE) (95%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%); FB (NASDAQ) (55%); MDZ.A (TSX) (54%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS311813 FROZEN CAKES, PIES & OTHER PASTRIES MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (95%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1015 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Shareholders Push Tepco to Abandon Nuclear Power

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Masafumi Asada bought shares of the Tokyo Electric Power Company almost a decade ago with a single purpose: To vote against the use of nuclear power.
Mr. Asada, a 70-year-old resident of Fukushima prefecture, the epicenter of Japan's nuclear crisis, will speak on behalf of 402 shareholders on Tuesday at the annual general meeting of the utility known as Tepco, to ask it to stop atomic generation.
''Even if our proposal doesn't go through, I will still hold the stock,'' said Mr. Asada, whose 1.6 million yen ($20,000) investment in 800 shares 10 years ago has shrunk to about 12 percent of the original value. ''I bought the stock to protect our lives, not to make money.'' 
Almost $37 billion of Tepco's market value has been erased since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami knocked out the Fukushima Daiichi plant, causing meltdowns in three reactors. The catastrophe, the worst nuclear accident in 25 years, displaced 50,000 households after radiation leaked into the air, soil and sea.
A group of shareholders has been proposing the motion to stop Tepco from using atomic energy for the last two decades, each time failing at the annual meeting. This year, they may have some support: local news media reported that more than 60,000 people marched in demonstrations in Tokyo, Osaka, Hiroshima and Fukushima on June 11.
Tepco has opposed the proposal of withdrawing from nuclear power generation, saying that it was a matter for the board to weigh.
At the meeting, shareholders will vote on the appointment of 17 board members, including its newly named president, Toshio Nishizawa, 60, and its chairman, Tsunehisa Katsumata, 71. Sixteen of the 17 directors are Tepco executives, company documents show.
The lone outside director, Yasushi Aoyama, has been paid by a Tepco unit for two years in the past, according to the documents. Mr. Aoyama is a former vice governor of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and has experience in urban planning and crisis management, the company said.
Glass, Lewis & Company, a proxy advisory firm in the United States, is recommending that shareholders vote against all nominees, citing a lack of independent members to oversee risk. Instead, independent directors that may change the way the company operates should be appointed, Naomi Stroud, an analyst at Glass Lewis, wrote in a June 13 report.
''The company has experienced significant problems with its safety practices and risk management, wreaking havoc on surrounding communities, destroying shareholder value as well as tarnishing its reputation,'' Ms. Stroud wrote. ''The appointment of new, independent directors untainted by prior safety lapses and poor communication would provide better oversight of the company on behalf of shareholders as well as stakeholders.''
This month, the Japanese cabinet approved a disaster compensation bill to help Tepco pay reparations with the support of a third party. A group of banks led by Sumitomo Mitsui Financial advanced 2 trillion yen (about $25 billion) of emergency loans to Tepco.
Tepco may face as much as 11 trillion yen in compensation claims, according to Bank of America's Merrill Lynch unit.The cost of dismantling the Fukushima plant may reach 20 trillion yen, and compensation for households in a 20-kilometer evacuation zone may total 630 billion yen over 10 years, according to the Japan Center for Economic Research.
''Perhaps the best solution would be to spin off all of the noncore assets, real estate and subsidiaries into a separate company for liquidation to pay for the damages,'' said Curtis Freeze, founder of Prospect Asset Management in Honolulu. ''Otherwise, the shareholders will expect Tepco to do as little as possible.''
Some institutional investors are selling shares of utility companies because of the risks associated with nuclear power.
The STB Asset Management Company said in April that it was removing Tepco stock from its socially responsible investing fund, citing environmental and health concerns after the accident.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Recent demonstrations in Tokyo show that the investors pressuring the Tokyo Electric Power Company have many supporters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIZUO KAMBAYASHI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Toshio Nishizawa, top, president of Tepco, and Tsunehisa Katsumata, above, its chairman, and are among the board members who control whether the company uses nuclear power. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ITSUO INOUYE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 TOMOHIRO OHSUMI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (93%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN NUCLEAR DISASTER (90%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (90%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (87%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); TSUNAMIS (68%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); CITIES (61%); CITY GOVERNMENT (61%)

COMPANY: TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (93%)

TICKER: 9501 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (93%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); OSAKA, JAPAN (79%) TOHOKU, JAPAN (93%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1016 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Shift Leads to Worries Of Overestimation of Reserves

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
In 2008, the stocks of many natural gas companies were sinking because of the financial meltdown, recession fears and falling gas prices.
But they began to rebound after a sweeping rule change by the Securities and Exchange Commission, intended to modernize how energy companies report their gas reserves.
As part of that change, the commission acquiesced to industry pressure by giving these companies greater latitude in how they estimated reserves in areas that were not yet drilled. The new rules, which were several years in the making, were officially adopted only weeks before the S.E.C. chairman under President George W. Bush, Christopher Cox, stepped down.
Previously, companies were allowed to count gas only from areas close to their active wells as part of their ''proved'' reserves, the amount of gas that a company estimates to investors it will tap. This was meant to prevent companies from claiming reserves of gas based largely on guesswork. 
After the rule change, companies were allowed to include gas located farther from producing wells in their reserves estimates, using modeling methods to predict how much gas could be produced from these yet-untapped areas. But the S.E.C. said that the companies, for reasons of trade secrecy, did not have to disclose precise details about the technology they used to estimate reserve sizes. Though the commission considered requiring third-party audits to verify the reserve estimates, the idea was dropped in the end.
The rule change was especially helpful to shale gas companies because it approved the use of new technology and modeling techniques that these companies rely on more heavily than traditional oil and gas companies.
Shale gas producers also especially benefited from the relaxed restrictions on how large an area companies could predict would be productive without drilling to test first. Shale formations tend to span much bigger areas than conventional oil and gas fields, and some shale gas producers say they can achieve relatively predictable results across these large areas.
Among 19 of the largest shale companies reviewed by The New York Times, at least seven increased -- some by more than 200 percent -- the amount of undeveloped reserves they reported in their federal filings immediately after the rule took effect, according to their S.E.C. filings. Investors cheered the rule change as it was adopted, and in the following months they sharply bid up the stocks of five of the seven companies.
The rule change also allowed these companies to reduce one of the costs that investors often rely on to compare the performance of energy companies: their finding and development costs. These costs now appeared drastically lower because they were being divided across a much larger reserve estimate. Five of the seven shale companies also reported huge decreases in their finding and development costs -- by as much as 86 percent, according to a review by The Times of their federal filings. The average decrease in these costs for the oil and gas industry on the whole was about 48 percent for the year.
However, in internal e-mails and documents, many industry executives and federal officials have questioned whether some companies are overstating, perhaps intentionally, the amount of gas they can economically produce in a given period. This practice, known as overbooking, is illegal because it misleads investors trying to assess a company's strength and banks that use reserves as collateral for loans.
''There is now plenty of production data available from the states to show that these wells are nowhere near what these guys are touting,'' an official with a Texas oil and gas company who formerly worked at Enron wrote on Nov. 7, 2009, comparing the practices of shale companies to Enron's. ''I have discussed this numerous times with analysts that are friends of mine -- they agree with me and then just shrug their shoulders.''
Asked about the rule change, officials at Chesapeake Energy, one of the leading shale gas companies, said its reserve numbers were accurate and comparable to those of other companies.
''We believe that the new modernized S.E.C. rules reasonably reflect the advancements in our industry's ability to predictably produce oil and natural gas resources from unconventional formations,'' Jim Gipson, a spokesman for Chesapeake, wrote in an e-mail. With advances in technology, he said, ''exploration can be more accurately described as a manufacturing process because well outcomes become very predictable, substantially reducing risk.''
W. John Lee, a professor at Texas A&M University who worked for the S.E.C. as one of the main architects of the rule change, said the threat of S.E.C. action is also a powerful deterrent. ''The S.E.C. is requiring more complete (transparent) disclosure in many cases,'' Mr. Lee wrote in an e-mail, adding that the risk of overbooking was recognized when the rules were written. Steps were taken to minimize that risk by allowing companies to include only reserves from areas that would under most circumstances be drilled within five years, he added.
John Nester, an S.E.C. spokesman, said the new rules did not require third-party audits because there was a lack of qualified professionals available to do the work and companies themselves could do a better job checking their own reserve estimates.
Some industry experts say they think they are seeing a replay of events from last decade.
In 2004, the oil and gas industry faced one of its most embarrassing scandals. After whistle-blowers reported concerns about the size of Royal Dutch/Shell's reserves, the company surprised investors by slashing reserve estimates. ''I am becoming sick and tired about lying,'' Walter van de Vijver, a senior executive at Royal Dutch/Shell, wrote in a November 2003 e-mail made public shortly after his company's problems came to light. The episode led to the ouster of several of the company's top executives and an investor lawsuit worth more than $350 million, and helped propel the S.E.C. rule change.
Companies could not apply the new rule until they submitted their 2009 federal filings to the S.E.C. in the early part of 2010. However, companies began describing to investors the coming increases in reserves shortly before the rule change was officially adopted in late 2008.
John E. Olson, an energy market analyst at Houston Energy Partners, says he believes shale companies have been aggressively booking their reserve estimates and playing down costs to make themselves appear more profitable.
Mr. Olson, who is famous for having been fired from Merrill Lynch in 1998 for refusing to recommend Enron stocks, compared the accounting practices of shale gas companies and the hype surrounding the industry to what he saw at Enron. Of the S.E.C. rule change, Mr. Olson said: ''Welcome back to Alice in Wonderland.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: JOHN E. OLSON: Analyst at Houston Energy Partners (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD CARSON/REUTERS)
 WALTER VAN DE VIJVER: Senior executive at Royal Dutch/Shell (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); APPROVALS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (93%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER COX (69%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1017 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Parliament Orders Postal Union Back to Work

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
OTTAWA -- Canada's Parliament passed legislation Sunday evening that ordered the country's 48,000 postal workers back to work.
The country has been without mail service since Canada Post locked out its unionized workers on June 15 after a series of rotating strikes organized by the Canadian Union of Postal Workers. Officials from Canada Post, which is owned by the national government, said that mail service should resume by Tuesday. 
Members of the labor-backed New Democratic Party, which held up the legislation with a 58-hour filibuster before it passed in the House of Commons Saturday night, strongly criticized the government for moving quickly to settle the shutdown through legislation. The Senate passed the measure Sunday evening.
This month, the Conservative government introduced similar legislation ordering Air Canada's customer service and ticket agents back to work. But the strike at the airline, which is in the private sector, was ultimately resolved through negotiations.
During an unusual Sunday session of the Senate, an appointed body, Labor Minister Lisa Raitt told lawmakers that the legislation was necessary for the country's economy. Canada Post is the only service that delivers throughout Canada and rates charged by the Canadian subsidiaries of United Parcel Service and FedEx are generally higher than those in the United States.
''This is not our first choice in how we would like to see this labor dispute resolved, but the choice is a necessary one,'' she told the Senate. ''Our citizens cannot afford to be left waiting.''
Canada Post, which is marginally profitable despite its no longer being directly subsidized by the government, wanted a less generous pension plan and lower wages for all employees hired in the future. While that was the central source of the impasse with the union, the two sides were also apart on several issues related to current employees.
The back-to-work legislation imposes a four-year contract with wage increases that, according to the union, are less than those being offered by the post office during negotiations. Prime Minister Stephen Harper said that the increases were in line with those given to other federal government employees.
An arbitrator will choose the final proposal of either the post office or the union to deal with the other issues.
Mr. Harper gained his first voting majority in the House of Commons in a federal election this year. Several of his critics say that the government's approach to the post office may be a sign of what awaits the public service in general as the Conservatives move to deal with a budget deficit brought about by tax cuts, a slowing economy and stimulus spending during the recession.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lisa Raitt, the labor minister, defended the legislation as necessary for the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS WATTIE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOCKOUTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (71%); BUDGETS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); TICKET AGENCIES (68%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (58%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%)

COMPANY: AIR CANADA (58%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (55%)

TICKER: AC.A (TSX) (58%); UPS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (55%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (55%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1018 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: Even Boom States Get the Blues

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

 BODY:
MINOT, N.D. -- For a very long time this state was derided as an empty expanse of windswept nothingness where snow stormed in and residents stormed out in predictable abundance. Then, as the rest of the country struggled the last few years, North Dakota started winning consistent praise as an oasis of economic prosperity. The snow kept coming, but suddenly so did new residents.
Among them was Lisa Tankersley, whose husband was one of the thousands to land a well-paying job in the oil fields that are helping to drive the economic boom. She arrived at her new home here last Monday afternoon, weary from the two-day drive from East Texas. Fifteen minutes later, not having unloaded a single box, she was ordered by a police officer to evacuate: floodwaters were on the way.
''I was freaking out,'' said Ms. Tankersley, who immediately threatened to drive back to Texas but consented to stay indefinitely at the apartment of friends who had also migrated north. ''Here I am, hundreds of miles from home, with my two children and all my worldly belongings, and I have no place to live.'' 
In many ways this has been a year of triumph for North Dakota, home to the nation's lowest unemployment rate and fastest growing economy. But with historic flooding from one side of the state to the other, this is also the year when North Dakota reminded its residents that even in good times the state is -- in the words of Andy Peterson, head of the state Chamber of Commerce -- ''not for the faint of heart.''
First the Red River flooded to near record heights for the third consecutive year, forcing weeks of desperate work to protect Fargo, the state's largest city. Later, the unprecedented rise of the Missouri River forced Bismarck, the state's capital and second largest city, into a flood fight expected to last the whole summer. And over the last week, the Souris River broke the century-old high mark not by inches but by feet, swamping more than a quarter of Minot.
Together, these and other waterways -- fed by record rain and snow -- harassed large and small communities, forcing evacuations, destroying crops and causing tens of millions of dollars in damage to infrastructure. But even as officials acknowledged that the extreme weather would cause hardships for the many affected residents and perhaps chase away some of the newcomers, they insisted that it would not knock the galloping economy off its stride.
''Will this flooding set us back some? Yes it will,'' said Senator John Hoeven, a North Dakota Republican who grew up in Minot and focused on promoting economic development during his three terms as governor before winning election to the Senate last year. ''But our fundamentals are there. We'll recover, we'll help people recover, and we'll continue to grow.''
Tucked into a narrow valley and surrounded by plains, Minot, the fourth largest city in the state, offers a case study in this roller coaster year. The city, serving as a regional hub for the northwest corner of the state, has experienced frenetic growth over the last decade, driven largely by development of the nearby Bakken shale field, which has made the state one of the top producers of oil. Then, last week, it went under water.
The Souris River, known as the Mouse after its French name, stopped rising on Sunday. The crest topped the 130-year-old record by almost four feet, lower than predictions. But the river, which flooded many homes to their roofs and displaced an estimated 12,000 people, is expected to subside slowly, so residents must wait to see what damage lies beneath the muddy surface.
''Before the flood, the major challenge Minot faced was how do you handle the growth?'' said John Coughlin, a developer who stopped work on several projects to help build protective levees.
''The flood has distracted the forward momentum,'' he continued. ''The recovery is going to cost money, and it's going to cost time.''
Over the last decade, the population of North Dakota grew to 673,000, just short of the high mark achieved eight decades earlier. And while high commodity prices in an economy driven by energy and agriculture has led the growth, Gov. Jack Dalrymple said a diversified economy had been fostered by businesses-friendly laws, regulations and taxes passed during years of economic malaise and population loss.
''We came to it out of necessity,'' said Mr. Dalrymple, who signed large tax cuts this year enabled by a billion-dollar budget surplus. ''Those steps really paid off big time.''
In Minot, the population surged nearly 12 percent to 41,000 over the last decade, transforming a city that locals said had always seemed locked in time.
Leaders found themselves dealing with problems that would be considered blessings in most of the country. Instead of workers struggling to find jobs, jobs struggled to find workers -- several businesses have had to close for lack of employees. Community leaders trolled places like Michigan, Ohio and Texas trying to fill the city's many available jobs, currently estimated at 1,400.
And with home vacancy rates of less than 1 percent, the real estate market is also ignoring national trends. Property values have doubled, houses typically take just a few hours to sell, and local developers are building as much as they can as fast as they can, setting records for construction permits. Housing is so difficult to find that every hotel in town has been booked, almost solid, for years.
There are also less desirable consequences like traffic jams and rising crime. And seemingly everything now requires a wait in line. At least one restaurant has even started taking reservations.
''I was just getting used to the slow pace of a small town,'' said Mary Pignet, a store clerk who arrived 15 years ago when she was assigned to the local Air Force base and then stayed to raise her three children. ''And then all of the sudden it started to feel like a big city.''
Ms. Pignet's house is now underwater, along with almost 5,000 others, according to city estimates. The lack of housing has already emerged as a serious obstacle for the people who were displaced. ''As much as we want to say it's not going to do much, this is really tough because it's going to be a huge blow to the economy,'' Mayor Curt Zimbelman said.
But North Dakotans pride themselves on being a hardy lot, even in the face of a solid soaking. Grand Forks suffered a devastating flood in 1997, and Fargo was seriously hit by the Red River three years ago. Both cities have grown since then. And as the state shifts toward recovery from the recent floods, the economic success ensures that there will be plenty of money available to rebuild.
''Fact is, people in North Dakota are really resilient,'' said Maj. Gen. David A. Sprynczynatyk, who commands the State National Guard. ''They have lived through hard times, economic or disaster.''
That group now includes Jason Barber, who has spent his whole life working oil fields. He had fought to stay in Texas until the bitter end, long after his company stopped making money, long after he had to sell most of what he had to cover his debts. But when he arrived out of necessity in North Dakota, he was awestruck at the sight of so many drilling rigs and excited about the prospect of all that oil underfoot.
''After all these floodwaters subside, I imagine a lot of new arrivals are going to leave,'' he said in a warm-weather drawl as a tornado siren wailed outside his apartment. ''Not me. As good as we have it up here, I'm not going home anytime soon.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Emergency response workers navigated the floodwaters of the Souris River over the weekend in Minot, N.D. The river broke the century-old high-water mark, swamping the city. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES)
Above, algae showed the highwater mark on Sunday as the water began to recede in Burlington, N.D., upstream of Minot. Left, Erik Anderson, who was forced to evacuate, played Bach by the floodwaters in Minot. And a row of damaged corn bins in Burlington. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CRAIG LASSIG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
CHARLES REX ARBOGAST/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A9)
 As the floodwaters hit Minot, N.D., many left for higher ground. This deer statue served as yet another marker of how high the water rose. Recovery will not be easy for the city, officials said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH ADDICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); RIVERS (86%); WEATHER (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); CHILDREN (75%); GOVERNORS (73%)

PERSON: JOHN HOEVEN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BISMARCK, ND, USA (79%); FARGO, ND, USA (73%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1019 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Tea Party to Come Up With Debt-Cutting Proposals

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
While the Tea Party movement has led the charge for cutting the national debt, its supporters have often struggled to explain how, exactly, they would do so.
Now some are out to change that, joining a Tea Party debt commission that plans to hold hearings over the summer, in the hopes of delivering recommendations to lawmakers by January.
The commission is being organized by FreedomWorks, the libertarian advocacy group that helped grow the Tea Party movement and mobilize it for the midterm elections. And its recommendations are likely to line up with the goals of that group, which in turn tend to reflect those of libertarian organizations like the Cato Institute. (FreedomWorks' motto is Lower Taxes, Less Government, More Freedom, and it has worked against environmental regulations and for increased privatization of health care.) 
''If you look if you look at the landscape in Washington, D.C., there's a lot of Democrats who control two-thirds of the process who are now sitting on their hands, waiting to point fingers at Republicans who propose something, and there's too many Republicans who are afraid that the public won't understand a serious proposal to solve the budget deficit,'' said Matt Kibbe, the group's president.''We think, like with the first days of the Tea Party movement, that the only way we will ever reduce the debt and balance the budget is if America beats Washington and Tea Party activists take over this process, take over the public debate and engage the American people in the hard work of making tough choices.''
FreedomWorks held training for about 150 activists from 30 states at its headquarters in Washington over the weekend, with sessions dedicated to educating them about the budget proposals by Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky and Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, both Republicans who strongly embrace libertarian economic principles.
The activists, along with FreedomWorks staff, came up with parameters for their budget proposals, declaring that they would have to balance the federal budget within 10 years, reduce federal spending to 18 percent of the gross domestic product, reduce the national debt to no more than 66 percent of the G.D.P., assume that revenue accounts for no more than 19 percent of the G.D.P., reduce federal spending by at least $300 billion in the first year and reduce federal spending by at least $9 trillion over 10 years.
All this is a tall order; for example, the debt now equals nearly 100 percent of the gross domestic product. And with its limits on revenue - and the politics behind those limits - it is unlikely that the Tea Party commission will allow anything that looks like a tax increase.
The commission, to be formally announced Monday, is intended as a rebuke to the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform that President Obama named, which delivered its recommendations last year. Those recommendations were met with generally negative reviews from both parties, who were unwilling to make the sacrifices that were called for. But the Tea Party commission is modeled after President Obama's, in one way - it, too, will have 18 members (though this one is unlikely to be bipartisan, as the president's was).
The members will be chosen from 18 swing states, and will hold hearings in those states over the summer, Mr. Kibbe said.
It will also have a strong crowd-sourcing component, much like the Contract From America, which Tea Party activists created, wiki-style, as a kind of manifesto for the midterms. (Those ideas had some influence: the rules that House Republicans passed after the Tea Party victories in the midterms included a requirement, lifted from the contract, that all new legislation had to cite the specific provision of the Constitution that authorized it.) The commission will solicit ideas and have people vote on them at a website, teapartydebtcommission.com.
It aims to have proposals ready by January, when the presidential campaign will draw even more attention to economic proposals.
Mr. Kibbe said that his group hopes the commission will present its ideas to the Tea Party caucus in the House and Senate at hearings in the winter.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (92%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ELECTIONS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: FREEDOMWORKS (83%); CATO INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); RAND PAUL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1020 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Egyptian Leader Assures McCain and Kerry on Transition

BYLINE: By DINA SALAH AMER

 BODY:
CAIRO -- After talks with the leader of Egypt's ruling military council, Senator John McCain on Sunday expressed confidence that the caretaker military rulers wanted to transfer powers to an elected government ''as soon as possible.'' 
Senator McCain, an Arizona Republican, and Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, who were visiting Egypt with an American business delegation, said it was in the interest of the United States' national security to see Egypt become a free and democratic country.
Mr. McCain said that the leader of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, had ''again indicated his absolute commitment to a transition to a civilian government at the earliest possible time after the elections have taken place.''
Mr. Kerry said that he thought the military was ''very anxious to get out of the business of governing, and they want to go back to doing what they were doing.''
This month, Prime Minister Essam Sharaf raised the possibility of delaying parliamentary elections, saying that ''postponing the elections would give the chance for a larger number of new political parties to develop.''
Increasingly, some secular groups and political parties are calling for the elections to be delayed until a new constitution can be drafted, partly because they fear that early elections will give an unfair advantage to Islamists.
The senators proposed that Field Marshal Tantawi allow international monitors to observe Egypt's parliamentary and presidential elections, which are scheduled for this fall.
''Our recommendations included the idea of having third-party organizers with Egypt's upcoming campaigns and elections,'' Mr. McCain said. ''We also suggested ways to have more economic cooperation, further assistance to Egypt's military and hastening the legislation of proposed aid to Congress.''
The senators' Cairo visit was part of a broader trip to advance American economic ties in the region. On Sunday, they rang the opening bell at the Egyptian Stock Exchange.
Mr. McCain affirmed his belief that ''the success and failure of the revolution in this part of the Arab world will be directly related to the ability of providing investments and jobs for the Egyptian people.''
Mr. Kerry also offered words of encouragement. ''What Egypt does can change the region and will help in the quest for a better future,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators John Kerry, left, and John McCain rang the opening bell at the Egyptian Stock Exchange in Cairo on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMR NABIL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (94%); JOHN KERRY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011



1021 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: Test Yourself | Math, June 27, 2011

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: By how much did the number of unemployed Americans increase from April to May?

 BODY:
Test your math skills with today's question, created by Patrick Honner at Math for America from the article "Hiring in the U.S. Slowed in May with 54,000 Jobs Added."
After you've clicked "submit answer," more information will appear.
Use our questions for test prep or just for fun. Find more here: English-language question archive Math question archive History question archive General archive

        
Onward and Upward? Documenting Local Economic Conditions
        
The 99ers
        
Voices From the Crisis: Investigating Local Effects of Unemployment
        
Test Yourself | Math, June 22, 2011
        
Test Yourself | Math, June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (85%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (83%) economy; TYmath; U.S. economy; unemployment; Test Yourself

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1022 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Born to Lose: Health Inequality at Birth

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Low birth weight, long recognized as an indicator of vulnerability to health problems, is also an indicator of poor economic prospects, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
In an imaginary world of equal opportunity we would all be free to choose our own economic future. In reality, many children in the United States are born to lose, suffering health disadvantages at birth that reduce their likelihood of economic success.
Epidemiologists and economists have long agreed that low birth weight is an important, albeit approximate, predictor of future health problems. A wealth of new economic research tracing individuals over time shows that it is also an approximate predictor of future earnings problems, with statistical effects almost as strong as children's test scores.
Among other things, low birth weight increases the probability of suffering from attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and lowers the probability of graduating from high school.
In the current American Economic Review, Janet Currie of Princeton, a pioneer in this new area of research, summarizes recent findings and points out that children of black mothers who dropped out of high school are three times as likely as children of white college-educated mothers to suffer low birth weight.Many of the mechanisms that underlie this inequality are linked to characteristics of the physical environment, such as exposure to environmental toxins.
For instance, carbon monoxide related to automobile emissions harms fetal health. Detailed statistical analysis of families in New Jersey shows that moving from an area with high levels of carbon monoxide to one with lower levels has an effect on birth weight larger than persuading a woman who was smoking 10 cigarettes a day during pregnancy to quit.
Another memorable illustration of carbon monoxide effects comes from a study of the impact of E-ZPass electronic technologies, which improve infant health by reducing auto emissions in neighborhoods close to highway toll booths.
Exposure to toxic air pollutants and waste dumps (like Superfund cleanup sites) both lowers birth weight and increases the risks of premature and infant death.
Professor Currie's research shows that black and Latino children are significantly more likely than white children to be born to mothers living in proximity to such hazards, supporting arguments long made by environmental justice advocates.
Less-educated mothers are less aware of such health risks and less able to mobilize the economic resources necessary to move to better neighborhoods. This helps explain results showing that improved educational opportunities for mothers improve infant health.
Another important policy implication is that stricter environmental regulation would benefit low-income children in particular. Professor Currie has taken part in research showing that reductions in the release of three toxicants (cadmium, toluene, and epichlorohydrin) from 1988 to 1999 account for a 3.9 percent reduction in infant mortality over that time.
Previous research by Kenneth Y. Chay of the University of California, Berkeley, and Michael Greenstone of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has shown that the 1970 Clean Air Act reduced infant mortality.
Yet many children in the United States live, play or go to school in areas with dangerously poor air quality - a particularly serious problem in summer months when smog heats up.
Greater publicity for economic research on the impact of regulation might quiet critics of the Environmental Protection Agency, who often focus on its short-term costs rather than its long-term benefits. Would changing its name -- perhaps to the Environmental Child-Protection Agency -- help win over the family-values crowd?
Professor Currie herself tends to emphasize the pricing problem. As she put it: "Factories dump toxic releases into the atmosphere but don't pay the cost of pollution. There would be less harm to the children who ingest the toxins if the factories had to bear the cost."
Changes would happen even more quickly if the chief executives of these companies -- and their children -- had to bear the cost. But these adults are free to choose where to live and what to breathe. And their children are, for the most part, born to win.

        
Health Care Reform Is a Woman's Issue
        
Buying Into the Health of the Planet 
        
Vermont's Move Toward Single-Payer Health Insurance 
        
Shared Capitalism 
        
Tree-conomics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); INFANT MORTALITY (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (87%); CARBON MONOXIDE (87%); EMISSIONS (87%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CHILD WELFARE (77%); BIRTH INJURIES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); STATISTICAL METHOD (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (74%); SMOKING (72%); LANDFILLS (71%); AIR QUALITY (71%); SUPERFUND (71%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); AIR POLLUTANTS (71%); AIR POLLUTION (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (68%); CONTACTLESS PAYMENTS (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (66%); TOLUENE (66%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (54%) Child Well-Being Index; children; Daily Economist; Environment; health care; infant mortality; Nancy Folbre; pollution; toxic waste; Babies and Infants; Children and Youth; Hazardous and Toxic Substances; Income Inequality; Medicine and Health; Environmental Protection Agency

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%) Environmental Protection Agency

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1023 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: In a Sublime Setting, a Bridge is Born

BYLINE: JENNIFER HAMBLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Jamey Stillings spent more than two years photographing construction of the Colorado River Bridge, a monumental pairing of nature and humankind.

 BODY:
For engineers, the landscape of the Black Canyon is America's great playground - an intricately carved challenge to the best of technology.
For the photographer Jamey Stillings, that intersection between nature and humankind fueled a different sort of engineering: the challenge of documenting a massive construction project.
In early 2009, with no major studio projects ahead of him, Mr. Stillings persuaded his assistant to hit the road to collect images "the old-fashioned way." Heading for the Mojave Desert, they stopped to photograph a dramatic ring of mineral deposits outlining Lake Mead. They turned around and spotted a bridge, large and unfinished. They fell immediately for its visual complexity.
The Hoover Dam bypass bridge, which opened to the public in October 2010, is supposed to ease traffic flow across the dam. It spans the Colorado River gorge, connecting Nevada and Arizona. Its construction echoed that of the Hoover Dam during the Great Depression; like the dam, it became a concrete sign of resilience, rising against the odds of both nature and the economy with what Mr. Stillings calls "Mad Max-ian massiveness."
As he watched the bridge sprout high into the air above the river, Mr. Stillings had to negotiate with state and federal agencies to get the images he wanted. He knew he needed to do more than document the construction. He began to plan each shot meticulously.
"I would be lying there in bed at night thinking about where the sun was going to be in a couple of months and what the next phase of the bridge might be," said Mr. Stillings, a fine art, documentary and commercial photographer who had previously documented the construction of two bridges: in Rochester, N.Y., and Cleveland.
But what really sustained his passion - and the 1,000-mile round-trips from Santa Fe - was the wider historical significance of the construction. The Empire State Building, the Eiffel Tower, the Hoover Dam - the imagery their births created is burned into the collective memory.
Mr. Stillings's images have a sublime quality, too. A hundred years from now, when technology moves on and the magic fades, they may be a testament to a complicated harmony.

        
Silent Sentinels Along a Vast Frontier
        
Hot Off the Press
        
Matt McDonough Visits Mental Asylums
        
Figures in a Western Landscape
        
Little Water, and Less, Along the Jordan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); HISTORY (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); LAKES (70%) Architectural photography; Colorado River Bridge; Hoover Dam; Hoover Dam Bypass Project; Jamey Stillings; Jennifer Hamblett; Nature and environmental photography; Showcase; Bridges and Tunnels; Photography; Recession and Depression; Colorado River

COMPANY: HOT OFF THE PRESS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (78%) ARIZONA, USA (79%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%) Colorado River

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1024 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: The Soon-to-Evaporate Help for At-Risk Homeowners in 32 States

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: A federal program offers foreclosure-prevention help to those who act fast.

 BODY:
Homeowners at risk of foreclosure in 32 states can get emergency financial aid from the federal government, but they have to act fast. Deadlines are tight, and homeowners are already flooding the program with inquiries.
Within days of the program's announcement last week, roughly 600 people had contacted CredAbility, a credit counseling agency in Atlanta, to ask for details, a spokesman says. CredAbility is one of 22 agencies chosen to administer the program by the federal government and NeighborWorks America, a nonprofit housing organization.
As part of the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress set aside $1 billion to help struggling homeowners.
If they qualify, homeowners can get interest-free loans to pay a portion of their monthly mortgage, as well as back payments and legal fees, for up to $50,000 or two years, whichever comes first. The loans do not have to be repaid, as long as the homeowner continues making mortgage payments on time for five years. The program is expected to help from 20,000 to 30,000 distressed homeowners.
The program, known as the Emergency Homeowners' Loan Program, is available to homeowners ineligible for the larger, $7.6 billion "hardest hit" fund, which provided assistance to 18 states that absorbed the worst of the housing crisis.
There are some hoops to jump through though. To qualify, homeowners must be at least three months delinquent on their home loans and have suffered at least a 15 percent income reduction from a job loss due to economic or medical reasons. Other requirements, like income limits, also apply.
To make sure the emergency funds are used up by Sept. 30, the end of the federal fiscal year, there are tight deadlines to meet. Homeowners must submit preliminary applications for the funds by July 22, less than four weeks away. The counseling agencies will screen the applications and submit the names of eligible homeowners to NeigborWorks for review. Because demand is expected to outstrip available funding, finalists likely will be selected by lottery.
Homeowners whose applications are chosen by the lottery will be contacted and given a short period of time, possibly just five days, says Michelle Jones, senior vice president of counseling at CredAbility, to fill out a full application and provide supporting documentation of their eligibility. The list of required documents includes nine separate items, like a letter terminating your employment and a notice of delinquency from your lender. If homeowners fail to meet the deadline, the next name on the list will be contacted.
"It's a short timeline," says Ms. Jones, so homeowners shouldn't wait until they receive news that their application is selected via the lottery to begin gathering their paperwork.
To help make sure only those who are eligible make the first cut, the screening application asks if homeowners had been able to meet their mortgage payments before the job loss. The goal of the program is to help people who can be expected to resume making their payments once the economy improves and able to find work or their health improves. If they were having trouble paying their loan even when they were employed, they are unlikely to benefit from temporary assistance, Ms. Jones says.
But even if they aren't likely to benefit from the emergency loans, the counseling agencies also can work with those applicants on possible alternatives.
The emergency program is available in the following states: Alaska, Arkansas, Colorado, Hawaii, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Mexico, New York, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.
The program is also offered in Puerto Rico. Five other states also have similar programs: Connecticut, Delaware, Idaho, Maryland, and Pennsylvania.
If you are applying for this program or have attempted to apply for similar ones in the past, please report your experience in the comments.

        
What Do You Think of the Program for Distressed Homeowners?
        
Paying People Not to Walk Away
        
Proposals to Reduce Mortgage Principal
        
Should You Walk Away From Your Mortgage?
        
Borrowers Wade Back Into Adjustable-Rate Mortgages

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); DISMISSALS (86%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (79%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%) foreclosure; Mortgages; Unemployment; Foreclosures; Housing and Real Estate; Layoffs and Job Reductions

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1025 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Change Comes to Savannah

BYLINE: JACQUELINE JONES


HIGHLIGHT: How the Civil War altered life for free and enslaved blacks in Georgia's most important city.

 BODY:
Though the river port of Savannah, Ga., lay hundreds of miles from the burgeoning hostilities in Virginia, by the summer of 1861 it was already registering the effects of the Civil War. Like the rest of the Confederacy, Savannah quickly mobilized for war and, as the conflict wore on, came to reflect the wrenching changes that the Confederacy's bid for independence impressed upon all of Southern society - and nowhere more so than in its population of slaves and free blacks. Indeed, by starting a war to preserve slavery and to celebrate the ties that bound together all whites, the Confederates inadvertently put forces in motion that would begin to undermine that very project. 
Savannah was Georgia's most prosperous, cosmopolitan and ethnically diverse city. Home to 22,000 people, nearly half of them enslaved, the city thrived on domestic and international trade. Each fall and winter, hundreds of working men from New York City, most of them Irish immigrants, came south to work on the docks and stow rice, cotton and lumber in the holds of ships bound for the North and Europe. Enslaved workers, together with a small number of free blacks, were well integrated into the city economy: black men worked as teamsters, skilled craftsmen and dockworkers; black women dominated domestic service as cooks, laundresses and maids. A few wealthy men dominated business and politics; it was in their interest to keep both white workers and enslaved workers in line, to keep the docks humming and the profits flowing. The chief agent of order in the city was the Democratic Party, a group that welcomed into its ranks white men regardless of their ethnicity, religion or occupation.
Still, white Savannahians were all too ready to leave the Union; the city had well- nigh exhausted itself celebrating the process of secession. Yet throughout the spring of 1861, disruptions in trade, combined with a massive troop buildup, led to a striking decline in the riverport's fortunes. The city council ordered the hundreds of migrant workers to return home immediately, as trade between Savannah and ports in the Union and Europe came to an abrupt halt. 
At the same time, soldiers from all over the state began to converge in the city. There they marveled at the distinctive pink-stucco mansions and impressive public buildings; but they also put a strain on the city's water, food and law-enforcement resources. Within a year of the beginning of the war, as many as 9,000 troops would set up camp in downtown Forsyth Park or on the outskirts of the city.
Meanwhile, frenetic mobilization efforts could not obscure Savannah's gradually widening social fissures. Though of little military significance to the Confederacy, Savannah was the site of a dramatic African-American freedom struggle, one that whites could not - or chose not to - anticipate.
White elites, no more than 1 percent of the total population, were bent on upholding a traditional social system that maintained the power of whites over blacks, free people over the enslaved, rich over poor, men over women. Nevertheless, neither the color line nor the institution of slavery could accommodate such strict hierarchical orderings forever, and the war only exacerbated sources of social disorder. 
When the war broke out, black people bided their time and held their tongues. Some free men of color volunteered to shore up Fort Pulaski, at the mouth of the Savannah River, and their wives volunteered to sew uniforms for Confederate soldiers. At the same time, visitors were noting that Savannah's black people "are as familiar with current events as the whites themselves, and really expect to be made free by the incoming [Lincoln] administration." Before long, many blacks were taking advantage of upheavals in the city's economy and governance by either running away or seeking to profit materially from their masters' distraction and distress. 
Though deprived of formal means of political power, black men and women belonged to a well-organized community. The First African Baptist Church was an independent institution, largely free of white control; congregants hired their own preacher, paid their own pew rents, raised money for a new building and sponsored Sunday schools and missionary societies. Clandestine elementary schools taught literacy skills to black children. Mutual aid societies helped their members in sickness and paid for their funerals in death. During the war, these networks served as means of communication among black people in the city and the surrounding countryside. 
Some enslaved men continued to hire themselves out, but now they were less than scrupulous in turning over the money they made as carpenters and bricklayers to their masters. Many of the city's teamsters were black men who owned their own mules, horses and heavy wooden carts, and now served as the backbone of the wartime economy by transporting military supplies and materiel around the city. Throughout the Georgia lowcountry, enslaved men continued to operate flatboats and skiffs, demonstrating mastery over the region's intricate waterways, and enslaved women sold their own chickens and vegetables in Savannah's public marketplace. As foodstuffs became scarcer, these trading activities assumed heightened economic and political significance.
Slaveowners began to complain that black men and women were aggressively seeking out wage work and profits, and the larger freedom that came with them. These whites were also well aware of the integral and varied roles that black men played on the lowcountry battleground: In the course of establishing a blockade of the South Atlantic coastline, federal forces benefited from the expertise of black pilots, and from the hundreds of enslaved men who fled their owners to join the Union army and navy. Gone was the antebellum ideology of blacks as inherently dependent and childlike; instead, whites began to rail against the cunning black spies, whom they somehow considered "traitors," in their midst.
At the same time, fissures emerged among whites, who began to splinter into antagonistic classes: farmers' sons from the interior now assigned to guard the coastline endured mosquitoes, sand flies, the sweltering heat of summer, and boredom; they resented their officers, wealthy men who brought their enslaved cooks and valets to camp with them, received baskets of tasty foods from their mothers nearby, and went back into the city periodically to take a shower or attend a dinner party. Impoverished white men resented the fact that their social betters could pay for army substitutes, claim exemptions by virtue of their skills or education and avoid service if they could prove they were needed to supervise enslaved workers on the plantation. 
Confederate officers began complaining that the men serving under them were increasingly resistant to military discipline and inattentive to duty. Some white men refused to fight for the Confederate cause at all, and others deserted after they were drafted. The plight of farmers' wives and children back on the countryside, and artisans' wives and children in the city, prompted some soldiers to abandon their posts and return home to care for their families. Southern white men fought the war to protect their households from the Yankee invaders; but these men had to leave home to do so, and some believed that now they were more needed at home than on the battlefront. 
Savannah was quickly put under blockade by the Union navy, and Union army forces landed at the mouth of the Savannah River in April 1862. The gracious river port of antebellum days became a down-at-the-heels, weed-choked military entrepot. Still, it remained in Confederate control until December 1864, when it finally fell to Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman. Eventually it became mainly a tourist attraction - and a reminder of how the war upended the most fervent desires of the secessionists: to preserve the institution of slavery and the solidarity among all white people.
Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook.
Jacqueline Jones is a professor of history at the University of Texas at Austin and the author of "Saving Savannah: The City and the Civil War, 1854-1872."

        
A Railroad to Freedom, Underground No More
        
'The Most Northern of Southern Cities'
        
Mississippi Grays
        
A Capital Under Slavery's Shadow
        
What Lincoln Meant to the Slaves

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (91%); CIVIL WAR (90%); MEN (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); CITIES (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); MIGRANT WORKERS (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); ETHNICITY (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%) Blacks; Savannah; Slavery; the civil war; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Savannah (Ga); Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: SAVANNAH, GA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%) Savannah (Ga)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1026 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.

 BODY:
A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.
Wine Anorak: Jamie Goode sees a growing conflict as the fine-wine establishment, which treats wine as a luxury good, feels increasingly threatened by supporters of authentic wines, who value passion and a sense of place. Everybody: watch your backs! -- Eric Asimov
Fast Company: Foie gras and flakes of gold: behold the burger that goes for $175. - Jeff Gordinier
Ad Age: On dollar burgers and the economies of fast food. (Subscription required.) -- Sam Sifton
Palate Press: Are wines made from genetically modified vines in the near future? Hint: genetically modified yeasts are already on the market. -- Eric Asimov
The Chicago Tribune: Roasted corn. Pierogi. Fried catfish. Not to mention Los Horoscopos de Durango. Yes, it's the 10-day Taste of Chicago food festival at Navy Pier, and there's plenty of time to helicopter in, especially since the Chicago Park District insists that there will be more police officers this year to prevent those unfortunate wilding incidents of years past. -- Glenn Collins 
Conde Nast Traveler: Futuristic. Farm-to-table. Floral. San Francisco is getting funky with ice cream. - Jeff Gordinier
Decanter: Andrew Jefford asks, why not consider rose fine wine? I don't know, but apparently some people have their reasons. -- Eric Asimov 
The Capitol of Annapolis: Interesting piece on how the Maryland Department of Natural Resources is trying to link chefs to watermen, and vice versa. -- Sam Sifton
The Boston Globe: More on a record striped bass from Rhode Island. -- Sam Sifton
The Food Network: Alton Brown's recipe for granola. Don't know about the shredded coconut. But otherwise: ace. -- Sam Sifton
On the Wine Trail in Italy: As a young man, with a young family in tow, Alfonso Cevola finds long lost relatives in a forgotten town in the dusty hills of Calabria. Out comes pastries, out comes demi-johns of wine. -- Eric Asimov 
Westchester Magazine: New picks for the best noshing in the county just north of New York City. - Jeff Gordinier

        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (78%); ICE CREAM (77%); FAST FOOD (77%); WINERIES (73%) What We're Reading

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (87%); MARYLAND USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (87%); ITALY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1027 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: The Lawyer Surplus, State by State

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Researchers seek to quantify how many lawyers are being produced in each state, and how that compares with how many jobs for lawyers are being created. New York has the biggest legal oversupply.

 BODY:
11:35 a.m. | Updated to include more detail on and caveats for estimates for Wisconsin and Washington, D.C.
We've written before about the tough job market for recent law-school graduates. The climate is hard partly because of the weak economy, but also partly because the nation's law schools are churning out many more lawyers than the economy needs even in the long run.
Now a few researchers have tried to quantify exactly how big that surplus is.
The numbers were crunched by Economic Modeling Specialists Inc. (also known as EMSI), a consulting company that focuses on employment data and economic analysis. The company's calculations were based on the number of people who passed the bar exam in each state in 2009, versus an estimate of annual job openings for lawyers in those states. They also looked at data from the Department of Education on law school graduates each year to get another measure of the quantity of new lawyers. Estimates for the number of openings is based on data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Census Bureau.
According to this model, every state but Wisconsin and Nebraska (plus Washington, D.C.) is producing many more lawyers than it needs. (See table after the jump for full data, and additional caveats.)
In fact, across the country, there were twice as many people who passed the bar in 2009 (53,508) as there were openings (26,239). A separate estimate for the number of lawyers produced in 2009 -- the number of new law-school graduates, according to the National Center for Education Statistics -- also showed a surplus, although it was not quite as large (44,159 new law grads compared with 26,239 openings).
In raw numbers, New York has the greatest legal surplus by far.
In 2009, 9,787 people passed the bar exam in the Empire State. The analysts estimated, though, that New York would need only 2,100 new lawyers each year through 2015. That means that if New York keeps minting new lawyers apace, it will continue having an annual surplus of 7,687 lawyers.
California and New Jersey have the next largest gluts of new lawyers, according to EMSI.
As noted above, not every state is overproducing lawyers. Nebraska appears to have a small deficit of lawyers. Wisconsin is also listed as having a deficit according to the number of people who passed the bar exam, but the bar-passers figure may not be a good metric (as noted by many readers in response to an earlier version of this post). Graduates of University of Wisconsin Law School and Marquette University Law School, in Milwaukee, do not have to take the bar exam in order to practice law, so there may be many new lawyers not counted in this figure. Note that the Education Department's figures for the number of people who completed law school in Wisconsin is far higher, and would indicate that Wisconsin too has a surplus of new attorneys.
The place list with the biggest shortage is the District of Columbia, which is projected to have 618 new jobs opening annually for lawyers for the next few years, but had only 273 bar-passers in 2009. But as several readers observed in the comments, the District of Columbia waives in lawyers who are barred in other states, meaning that these figures probably underestimate the number of newly-minted lawyers in the nation's capital. (If you know how to calculate a better estimate for this figure, please e-mail us.)
The District of Columbia has the highest median wage for lawyers in the country: $70.96 an hour.

2010-15 Est. Annual Openings2009 Bar Exam Passers2009 Completers (IPEDS)Surplus/ShortageMedian Wages	New York2,1009,7874,7717,687$56.57	California3,3076,2585,0422,951$50.61	New Jersey8443,0377872,193$43.84	Illinois1,3943,0732,1661,679$51.54	Massachusetts7152,1652,5201,450$43.89	Pennsylvania8691,9431,6971,074$46.05	Texas2,1553,0522,402897$41.55	Florida2,0272,7822,781755$36.39	Maryland5601,277548717$41.46	Missouri362943908581$39.96	Connecticut316880510564$43.69	North Carolina5031,032279529$37.79	Minnesota378888948510$43.69	Ohio6861,1941,513508$34.69	Georgia7791,217894438$46.11	Colorado547967509420$40.83	Virginia9561,3751,435419$49.34	Louisiana357731810374$33.35	Tennessee389735446346$37.34	Washington619935678316$37.37	Oregon291594519303$34.51	Indiana339602825263$32.48	South Carolina262506410244$33.03	Kentucky261478389217$34.39	Nevada219392143173$40.32	Arizona440607378167$37.51	New Mexico134298114164$29.78	Michigan8621,0241,993162$35.22	Kansas190351296161$31.16	Alabama295455406160$37.98	Iowa155290556135$32.16	Rhode Island102209184107$39.65	Hawaii7617988103$33.70	Mississippi17326833595$28.86	Utah30840128393$37.04	W. Virginia10019115291$32.51	Montana811638382$24.96	Maine751539178$29.70	Arkansas15222724375$30.83	Wyoming401138073$29.86	New Hampshire9215414662$30.84	Oklahoma32638748961$29.56	South Dakota38837345$29.19	North Dakota33638030$28.78	Idaho1281579729$30.77	Alaska4166025$37.80	Delaware11614123525$60.67	Vermont51551914$30.48	Nebraska112109279-3$32.47	Wisconsin262248691-14$36.43	D.C.6182732,109-345$70.96	Nation26,23953,50844,15927,269$44.22	
        
Law Schools Visit Lake Wobegon
        
A Long, Slow Slog Back to Normal
        
The Other Law School Arms Race
        
A Comeback in Wall Street Hiring?
        
Where the Jobs Will Be

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (74%); STATISTICS (74%); CENSUS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%) Economic Modeling Specialists Inc.; employment; Forecasts; law school; lawyers; New York; Labor and Jobs; Legal Profession

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1028 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Prescriptions)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Acquisitions, not Research, Fuels New Drugs

BYLINE: DUFF WILSON


HIGHLIGHT: New reports reinforce the notion that mergers and acquisitions, rather than internal lab work, is responsible for pharmaceutical approvals.

 BODY:
Outside business deals rather than internal research projects are stocking the new drug cabinets of major pharmaceutical companies, analysts for Fitch Ratings said Monday in a global health care business report.
Thanks to acquisition and licensing deals, the multinational drug makers, taken as a whole, are on pace to meet last year's level of 21 new drug approvals by the end of the year in the United States and Europe, the Fitch report said.
But at the same time, 15 possible new drugs have hit major hurdles since the beginning of the year, mostly because of unfavorable clinical trials, the analysts said.
The largest drug companies started at least 22 new projects in their late-stage pipelines since the beginning of the year, Fitch said, but mostly from business deals rather than internal R&D.
The companies' setbacks in their own labs are well known in the industry, notably at Pfizer, which has announced plans to slash research by as much as $2.9 billion the next two years.
Pfizer, Eli Lilly and Johnson & Johnson have each added three or more new experimental drugs to their late-stage development plans since the beginning of the year, Fitch said.
Two of Lilly's were diabetes drugs licensed from Boehringer Ingelheim in January. Pfizer acquired three new pain medicine candidates - called Remoxy, Oxecta, and ALO-02 -- when it bought King Pharmaceuticals for $3.6 billion in October 2010. J&J acquired a yellow fever vaccine in late development with the $2.4 billion takeover of the Dutch biotechnology company Crucell and licensed another experimental drug from Sweden's Medivir.
In another analyst report with a broad view of the industry recently, Dr. Timothy Anderson of Bernstein Research looked at the prospects for nine major pharmaceutical companies to 2020. 
His June 16 investor note found some companies with good long-term prospects from existing products, while others fall off the "patent cliff" as generic competition is expected to pound their sales.
The three companies with the best sales prospects to 2020 are GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis and Bristol-Myers Squibb, Bernstein reported.
Those with the "most troubling revenue outlook" are, by far, Eli Lilly and AstraZeneca.The chart below shows "Base" Pharmaceutical Revenues to 2020, Normalized to 2010:

        
A Record Number of Drugs Are Being Tested to Treat Mental Illness

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (92%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (89%); MERGERS (89%); BIOLOGICS MFG (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (72%); MENTAL ILLNESS (70%); SALES & SELLING (68%); VACCINES (67%); DIABETES (51%) acquisitions; licensing; new drugs; research and development; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Fitch Ratings; clinicial trials; Drug Industry

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (92%); ELI LILLY & CO (91%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (82%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (58%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%); NOVARTIS AG (58%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (58%); BOEHRINGER INGELHEIM GMBH (55%); CRUCELL NV (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Fitch Ratings

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFEB (BRU) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%); LLY (SWX) (91%); LLY (NYSE) (91%); LEL (LSE) (91%); JNJ (NYSE) (82%); AZN (STO) (58%); AZN (NYSE) (58%); AZN (LSE) (58%); GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%); NVS (NYSE) (58%); NOVN (SWX) (58%); BMY (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (58%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (55%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1029 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Choice on Jobs: Politics or Policy

BYLINE: BILL GEORGE


HIGHLIGHT: Bill George, a Harvard professor, argues that time is running out for President Obama to implement policies that will restore America's economic competitiveness.

 BODY:
Bill George is a professor of management practice at Harvard Business School and a former chairman and chief executive of Medtronic. He is the author of four best-selling books, including "True North."
President Obama held his second meeting with his new Jobs and Competitiveness Council earlier this month at an electronics plant in North Carolina. With job growth stagnant and the nation's underemployment stuck at 16 percent -- that's 25 million Americans -- the meeting represented an ideal opportunity for the president to develop a list of sound ideas he could put into action.
It didn't happen. Instead, the meeting turned into a campaign "photo op" in a swing state Mr. Obama carried in 2008. The A-list of leaders who run General Electric, American Express, DuPont, Facebook, Xerox and Procter & Gamble was impressive. The ideas coming from the meeting were not. The group produced only a tepid list of quick-fix ideas rather than fundamental solutions to put jobs on a solid growth trajectory.
Instead of boarding Air Force One for Florida fund-raisers after the meeting, Mr. Obama should have boarded Amtrak for South Carolina. Boeing's chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr., who heads up the president's Exports Council, would have gladly given him a tour of Boeing's new aircraft factory that will manufacture its the flagship 787 Dreamliner. Boeing has billions of dollars in aircraft orders for export and has spent $1 billion in constructing the plant and hired the first 1,000 workers. Thousands have applied for the remaining 5,000 jobs.
But there is a problem: Mr. Obama's National Labor Relations Board has sued Boeing to stop production for locating in a right-to-work union state. The issues are being contended in a Seattle court, where Boeing has recently hired an additional 2,000 unionized employees. Years of appeals lie ahead.
While in South Carolina, the president could have also stopped by BMW's and Mercedes's highly successful automobile plants. The irony here is obvious: German companies are permitted to produce in a right-to-work state, but not American companies.
These two situations typify why the nation's jobless rate is stuck at a perilously high level, one that will threaten Mr. Obama's 2012 re-election bid. Neither photo opportunities nor empty pronouncements can shroud the ugliness of the present economic malaise or the magnitude of the crisis this country now faces. 
Two years ago, I wrote that the president is like the Roman god Janus, with two heads facing in opposite directions, as Mr. Obama the politician pulls against Mr. Obama the leader. Since 2009, Mr. Obama the politician has prevailed, but time is running out for Mr. Obama the leader to implement policies that restore America's economic competitiveness.
First-hand reports from chief executives who have met with the president indicate that he listens hard and seems to understand the deeper problems, but fails to take action. Or stated more clearly, he takes only politically expedient actions. 
These leaders are pragmatists. With the American economy growing at less than 2 percent and emerging markets at 10 percent, they are focusing on overseas sales -- and jobs are following. If you were a chief executive with responsibility for tens of thousands of employees, would you do anything different? 
In addition to stagnant domestic growth, these chief executives cite several limitations that keep them from investing at home: political gridlock in Washington, the unpredictable regulatory environment, excessive corporate tax rates and uncertainty over health care and financial regulation. 
To get the American economy growing again, a multifaceted plan is required to address these issues:
1. Resolve the budget gridlock with a solid deficit reduction plan rather than letting the debt ceiling imperil the nation's solvency.
2. Reduce regulations that suffocate jobs. Why let politicians block the remarkable shale gas discoveries that would reduce pollution and help balance the nation's energy supplies? Why is the Food and Drug Administration holding up so many life-saving drugs and devices? According to California Healthcare Institute, clearances for devices are down 43 percent and approval times have lengthened by 75 percent. 
3. Lower basic rates to make corporate tax rates competitive with other nations, while eliminating corporate deductions to yield a more equitable tax system. To incentivize companies to bring back the $1 trillion trapped overseas, reduce repatriation tax rates to 15 percent from 35 percent, if the money is invested in physical assets in the United States.
4. Clarify lingering uncertainty created by the health care and financial services laws. The buck now rests, or stagnates, in the regulatory agencies. Meanwhile, small businesses cannot get loans and will not hire workers without knowing the cost of their health care. Furthermore, Medicare is on course toward bankruptcy. The McKinsey Quarterly reports that 30 percent of employers will plan to stop offering employer-sponsored insurance in the years after 2014. The Obama administration must reach agreement on practical rules to enable these vital sectors to move forward. 
Instead of addressing these problems with policies that would solve them but might cause some political pain, President Obama continues to put politics over policy. The nation continues to suffer.

        
Bill George: What the President Should Say
        
Wall St.'s Dinner With Obama: Hold the Scorn

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); BESTSELLERS (72%); AIRCRAFT MFG (71%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (71%); RIGHT TO WORK LAWS (68%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (66%); LITIGATION (63%) Barack Obama; Bill George; Obama, Barack; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; Another View; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BOEING CO (91%); MEDTRONIC INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (91%); BAB (BRU) (91%); BA (NYSE) (91%); MDT (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (55%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JAMES MCNERNEY (58%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1030 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Long Sentences Send a Message Few May Hear

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: Prosecutors have asked for a sentence of as much as 385 years for Lee B. Farkas, former chief executive of Taylor, Bean &#038; Whitaker, who was convicted of orchestrating a $2.9 billion fraud.

 BODY:
The Justice Department has asked for a sentence of as much as 385 years for Lee B. Farkas, former chief executive of the Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corporation, who was convicted of orchestrating a $2.9 billion fraud that caused the collapse of Colonial Bank. 
The reason for seeking such a severe penalty is to "draw the attention of corporate executives" to the potential for severe punishments for fraudulent activity, but the question is whether anyone will actually listen.
Mr. Farkas was convicted by a jury on 14 counts for selling falsified mortgage loans in a scheme that lasted from 2002 to 2008, and then trying to orchestrate a $533 million investment by the federal government through the Troubled Asset Relief Program to keep Colonial Bank afloat. Prosecutors say that he diverted some $40 million from Taylor Bean for personal investments in bars in Atlanta and Fort Lauderdale along with various trinkets, including a $28 million jet.
According to the Justice Department's sentencing memorandum (below), the recommended sentence under the federal sentencing guidelines is life in prison, based in large part of losses in excess of $400 million attributable to the fraudulent scheme.
In order to grab the attention of other executives, Justice Department officials have asked for more than just a life sentence, instead requesting the maximum term for each charge to be served consecutively, which adds up to 385 years.
In seeking a punishment even greater than that imposed on Bernard L. Madoff, now serving a 150-year sentence, the Justice Department wants to use Mr. Farkas's sentence as an example to other corporate officers who might be tempted to stray into illegality. 
According to prosecutors: "Sentencing him to the maximum penalty allowed by law will send the most forceful and unequivocal message to senior corporate executives that engaging in fraud and deceit in order to pump up your company or line your own pockets is unacceptable and will have severe consequences."
Mr. Farkas's lawyers take a different view, arguing in their sentencing memorandum (also below) that he should be sentenced to only 15 years in prison because much of his conduct was directed at keeping Taylor Bean and Colonial Bank in business, preserving the jobs of thousands of workers. He will be 59 when sentenced, so a prison term in that range would incarcerate him into his 70s, and anything longer may well mean he spends the rest of his life in a federal prison.
It is an interesting question whether the "unequivocal message to senior corporate executives" from a particularly harsh sentence would in fact be heard. I think the answer is that it would not.
Taylor Bean was a privately held company based in Ocala, Fla., and its primary lender, Colonial Bank, was based in Montgomery, Ala. Both were far from the major financial and banking centers. Taylor Bean was not a major player in the mortgage-backed securities market, and the prosecution took place somewhat off the beaten path for financial prosecutions: in the Eastern District of Virginia in Alexandria, not in New York where it might have garnered more attention.
And while Colonial Bank, with $25 billion in assets, was one of the larger bank failures of the financial crisis, it did not have nearly the impact on the markets that the collapses of Washington Mutual, Lehman Brothers or Bear Stearns had.
It is unlikely that Mr. Farkas will become the face of the government's efforts to root out criminal conduct arising from the financial maelstrom that hit in 2008. 
The intended audience for the government's recommendation may well write off whatever sentence Mr. Farkas receives as hardly a blip on their radar screen. Packaging fake mortgages and diverting corporate funds to private ventures like bars is not something any self-respecting Wall Street executive would ever stoop to doing, at least so the thinking might go. Mr. Farkas can be classified an outlier who engaged in the type of naked fraud that corporate executives would never be so crass as to try, at least in their own minds. 
So while prosecutors may be trying to send a message, I doubt it will be heard because the prosecution and sentence can be viewed as an oddity, a fraud perpetrated by someone quite unlike the leaders of more respectable companies. No one in an executive suite views himself as the next Bernie Madoff, or even the next Lee Farkas, and what happened to them is unlikely to have much, if any, deterrent value.
In United States v. Martin, a case involving the sentencing of a former chief financial officer at HealthSouth, the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit asserted that "because economic and fraud-based crime are more rational, cool, and calculated than sudden crimes of passion or opportunity these crimes are prime candidates for general deterrence." 
I wonder whether corporate executives can be deterred by sentences given to others when they can rationalize misconduct they might engage in as necessary to preserve the company or to make a quarterly estimate, and they would never be caught doing something blatantly illegal. 
Even Mr. Madoff did not view himself as doing anything particularly troublesome while taking money from new investors and passing much of it on to old investors - he even described some of his victims as "greedy."
If executives can convince themselves that there's nothing "really" wrong with what was done, like inflating revenue or paying a foreign official to obtain a contract, because there was a good reason for doing it, then the likelihood of being deterred by a long prison sentence seems fairly minimal. Corporate executives might not be good candidates for deterrence because they perceive themselves as different from - and often better than - those who have been caught and punished, even if they are not.
In the case of Mr. Farkas, I doubt that Judge Leonie M. Brinkema will give the full 385 years the government seeks. She does not have a reputation as being a tough sentencing judge, and other Taylor Bean executives who pleaded guilty and cooperated in the case received sentences ranging from three months to eight years. 
Given Mr. Farkas's leadership role in the offense and failure to accept responsibility for the fraud found by the jury, I think Judge Brinkema will mete out a higher sentence than the co-defendants received, likely in the 15-to-20-year range.
Whether the sentence, whatever it might be, sends the message prosecutors want corporate executives to hear is questionable.
Government's sentencing memo in U.S. v. Farkas
Defense sentencing memo in U.S. v. Farkas

        
Leader of Mortgage Lender Guilty of $2.9 Billion Fraud
        
A New World Begins for Wall Street Oversight

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (96%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SENTENCING (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); PRISONS (87%); JURY TRIALS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); VERDICTS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%) Bernard L. Madoff; Colonial Bank; Federal Sentencing Guidelines; Lee B. Farkas; Taylor Bean & Whitaker; Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage; Brinkema, Leonie M; Farkas, Lee B; Banking and Financial Institutions; Frauds and Swindling; Sentences (Criminal); Justice Department; Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1; White Collar Watch

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (97%); US SENTENCING COMMISSION (82%) Justice Department; Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (57%) Brinkema, Leonie M; Farkas, Lee B

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (76%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (56%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1031 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Women Break Down Barriers in Mideast Finance

BYLINE: CHRIS V. NICHOLSON


HIGHLIGHT: Some successful women financiers have found it easier to create their own financial firms rather than to fight to get ahead in male-dominated companies.

 BODY:
Hoda Abou-Jamra still remembers the meeting when potential investors for her private equity fund thought she was the secretary.
"I would ask a question, and they would answer to the man next to me. I would answer their question, and they would look at him," she said, laughing. "I didn't let it bother me. I just stood up straighter and talked louder."
Women deal makers, financiers and entrepreneurs are a rare breed in the Middle East. As a founding partner of a $40 million health care fund in Dubai, Ms. Abou-Jamra operates in a male-dominated industry globally and a male-dominated work force locally.
In private equity, women account for roughly 9 percent of the senior management positions worldwide, with the share varying from 9.1 percent in Europe to 8.7 percent in the United States, according to a study this year by the industry research firm Preqin. The gender imbalance is even more extreme in the Middle East, market participants say. While few statistics are available on the region's nascent industry, only 25 percent of women enter the job market at all, compared with nearly 60 percent in the United States.
Ms. Abou-Jamra and other women financial professionals in the Middle East are trying improve the mix. It is a slow process, but they are making headway by creating their own investment vehicles, forging ties with influential players, and generally raising awareness.
"For the gulf states, in the last decade, women have become a lot more entrepreneurial," said Dina Kawar, the ambassador to France from Jordan, where women account for about 13 percent of all private-sector workers.
Like Ms. Abou-Jamra, Maha Al-Ghunaim found a place at the top by creating a new financial firm, rather than working inside an existing one. At the investment arm of Kuwait's sovereign wealth fund, Mrs. Al-Ghunaim steadily rose through the ranks, reaching the position an assistant general manager. But competition was intense, and she felt her best opportunity for advancement was elsewhere.
"When you are climbing the ladder, you have to balance between speed and safety," Mrs. Al-Ghunaim said.
So 13 years ago she founded Global Investment House, a Kuwait-based financial firm that began as a brokerage firm and investment bank. She has since expanded into private equity, with four funds overseeing about $1.5 billion.
The barriers for women are both cultural and structural.
"The guys have so much testosterone, I've had to learn to be more aggressive to be heard," Ms. Abou-Jamra said. "I've found that unless I participate in boys' club activities, I'm put aside. You have to be one of the boys to really fit."
But some Mideast countries ban women from driving or mixing in public spaces with the opposite sex. Strict dress codes are also enforced in places like Saudi Arabia and Iran.
"There are buildings where I walk in, and I'm the only woman there," said Ms. Abou-Jamra. "Even the secretaries are male."
Such restrictions made it difficult for Muna AbuSulayman, an entrepreneur and former television personality, to develop her latest ventures, a fashion line and a Facebook application for new parents. Simply registering the businesses with the government took a year, instead of the usual three days, she said.
"Each time, they would ask for something else, another piece of information, but they wouldn't ask for all of it at the same time," she said.
One item that held up the process: an address. The country's law forbids people from using their home for commercial purposes. Ms. AbuSulayman could not use her father's office either, since it was not licensed to have women employees under Saudi Arabia's gender segregation rules. She obtained a business address through a brother.
It can be difficult to find capital, too.
Despite the region's wealth and deep-pocketed investors, women are often reliant on conservative lenders, which are reluctant to give loans to small, women-led firms. When Ms. AbuSulayman and a male counterpart submitted similar applications to the same Saudi Arabian bank, she received a loan roughly a third of the size of the man.
"Applying for a loan, a woman will not get as much as a man," she said. "My sister decided to sell her catering business when she could not raise the money she needed to expand it."
Ms. Abou-Jamra went outside of the Mideast to find money for her firm. After meeting with four international private equity firms, she won the backing of the TVM Capital, a German private equity firm focused on the life sciences, to start a health care fund. She has since raised capital from investors like the World Bank's private-sector arm, the International Finance Corporation, and the health care unit of General Electric.
Fund-raising in the Middle East was a central topic at a recent conference in Paris. The one-day event, attended by dozens of business people, diplomats and policy analysts, covered how mentorships and social media could play a transformative role in helping women financiers succeed in the region.
"As a woman in the Middle East, as an Arab woman, I found some men were very supportive," Ms. Abou-Jamra said. "They helped me to not give up."
Anu Bhardwaj, organizer of the conference, said "like-minded people invest in one another."
Ms. Bhardwaj's efforts are tied to a wider campaign by the Women's Business Forum. Backed by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Jordan and the United States, the group is trying to educate women entrepreneurs and executives across the globe.
The group wants to tap into the vast resources of the region's wealthy women. In the Middle East, women are thought to control billions.
"Widows and divorcees have that kind of money," Ms. Bhardwaj said, "and they don't spend it all on eye shadow."

        
Mideast Private Equity Pioneer Looks Beyond the Unrest
        
Sovereign Wealth Funds Buy Stake in TPG

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); MEN (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); WOMEN (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); STATISTICS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (61%) Dubai; Global Investment House KSCC; Hoda Abou-Jamra; Kuwait; Kuwait Investment Authority; Maha Al-Ghunaim; Middle East; Muna AbuSulayman; Saudi Arabia; TVM Capital; Entrepreneurship; Private Equity; Women and Girls; Financial Services; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); GLOBAL INVESTMENT HOUSE KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); GLOBAL (KUW) (52%); GLOB (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (52%)

PERSON: MAHA AL-GHUNAIM (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) MIDDLE EAST (96%); KUWAIT (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GULF STATES (57%); JORDAN (57%) Middle East

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1032 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1681 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: A Union for Owners

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: What economic metric do you watch for your business?

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Fed: Bernanke Reins It In
In his second ever press conference, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke reins in growth forecasts and says QE2 will run its course. Agustino Fontevecchia says that the Fed chairman is clueless. Seeking Alpha's Jeff Miller explains the superpowers of Ben Bernanke. Bob McTeer is happy QE2 is over: "QE2 comes to a formal end this month and just in the nick of time, too, since it's been flooding the markets with newly printed money, making hyperinflation and a collapse of the dollar inevitable." But Mark Sunshine is concerned that our slower money supply is sending us back into recession, and Mark Thoma explains how this could happen. Want to vent? Here's how you can have dinner with President Obama.
The Data: Housing Still in the Basement
Oil prices tumble and new unemployment claims rise. Russell Investments' state-of-the-economy dashboard has been updated. Vehicle traffic declined in April compared with the previous year. Commercial real estate prices are at a post-bubble low. Existing home sales and the Architecture Billing Index also fell. And Calculated Risk isn't surprised: "Of course many qualified buyers bought last year -- using the ill-considered home-buyer tax credit -- and that pulled demand forward. The housing market is still paying the price for that policy mistake." But housing starts (PDF) increased. First-quarter gross domestic product was revised up and durable goods orders improved.
The Economy: Deficit Reform Draws Closer?
A deficit reform bill gets closer, and then talks break down. Jonathan Bernstein advises us not to panic about the current budget negotiations. The president shows that he really does care about future generations. The Treasury secretary calls for tax increases. I'm calling for a special tax on the Harry Potter industry. A political writer says that corporate tax cuts don't stimulate job growth. Looking at the top and bottom five states in terms of job growth, Brian Pittelko says, "nationally, the economy is expanding, but not every state is feeling that change." Small-business lending shows signs of life. Andrew Sullivan says that a growing housing gap could be good news for the construction industry. Greece's prime minister wins a vote of confidence. Bill Gross says our budget situation is worse than Greece's. Fortune's Nin-Hai Tseng reports that demand for loans is dropping at all banks, but the slowdown in small-business lending is hurting local banks.
Starting Up: You Say It's Your Birthday
A person begs for financing for his iPhone start-up. A new company stores social media posts for background checks, and another venture has come up with an ultrasound alternative to N.F.C. A heavily hyped start-up fails to live up to its hype. A lawyer explains how to introduce a start-up and avoid landing in jail. Small-business coach Andy Hayes explains how much sacrifice it takes to start a small business: "I wish I could tell you how many of your children's birthdays you'll miss. I wish I could warn you about how much over-consumption of caffeine you'll have, and how many nights you won't sleep because you're worried about paying your mortgage. I'd love to say that you'll be breaking even within a year, or that in six years you'll cash out as a millionaire." New research from the small-business insurer Hiscox finds that 15 percent of start-ups were started as a result of layoffs. The venture capital industry laments the lack of public offerings.
Marketing: Be a Better Blogger
A blogger offers seven ways to revitalize your blog, including: "Use link clusters. This is where your analytics software comes in. When checking your figures, look out for posts which have attracted lots of traffic via a particular keyword (say, 'social media tips'). Then, go back in your posts archive and edit previous posts so that they include a text link for 'social media tips' which links back to your original high-performing post." Todd Wasserman reviews five creative location-based campaigns. A social customer-relations management newcomer, Nimble, releases a company-wide product. Geez, I guess advertising really can work. 
Management: A Union for Small-Business Owners
Here's how Facebook would work in real life. A poll of 625 women found that 75 percent of them would not marry a man who was unemployed. A fed-up entrepreneur starts a union for small-business owners. Diana Ransom explains why this week's court victory for Wal-Mart is also a victory for small business. A working mom explains what it's like to be a working mom: "Each and every day, I recognize the enormous responsibility that rests upon my shoulders to support my family. But I also recognize that nothing is as important as my mental health." Sarah Needleman reports that a third of American workers are ready to quit. Russell Roberts says technology does not destroy jobs. Anita Woolley and Thomas Malone write in the Harvard Business Review that women make a team smarter.
Success Strategies: Go Overseas, Young Man
A customer relations guru, Paul Greenberg, says United Airlines could learn a lot from Marriott. A disgruntled customer writes a great letter to an airline. A few experts weigh in on whether franchising makes sense. A small-business owner, Norm Goldenberg, reflects on a half century spent in the pest control and lawn care industries. A new survey finds that nearly a quarter of American small and midsize companies are doing business overseas. Some believe that the National Football League lockout will hurt small businesses. Here are the five deadly sins of bad meetings.
Around the States: Go East, Californians
A Chamber of Commerce study identifies state-level economic development strategies that are working. The Greater Austin Chamber of Commerce is introducing an effort to create a downtown work space that could serve as a home base for entrepreneurs and early stage start-ups. A Silicon Valley doctor is making a big impact on the way health care is delivered. The United States Conference of Mayors predicts 3.5 percent growth in the second half of the year and that New York's economy will be the 13th largest (PDF) in the world. California small businesses rise up against a proposed Internet tax while many companies are leaving the state.
Technology: Putting a Fork in RIM?
A popular mobile application invades Chicago. The F.B.I. seizes a few servers, causing sites to go down. Verizon Wireless will join its competitors AT&T and T-Mobile next month in eliminating the option for customers to consume unlimited data on their mobile phones without paying additional fees. Microsoft is introducing Office 365 on June 28. Box.net and Google Docs join forces against it. Google goes after Skype. Uh-oh: RIM begins "cost-optimizing" its employees, and John Biggs says RIM is done. People are spending more time with their mobile apps than on the Internet. New research says that small- and medium-sized business technology spending is trending up. A hardcore laptop is introduced. Robert Scoble predicts that Android tables will make huge gains this year. Internet addresses are now whatever you want. The Internet reunites a long-lost camera with its owner. A girl tries to solve global warming.
Red Tape Update: A New Twist in Health Care
The Chamber of Commerce goes after President Obama's regulations. A tax holiday proposal may not offer much to celebrate. The I.R.S. increases (PDF) the mileage rate through year end. Ezra Klein says that Medicare is much more efficient than we think. Number crunchers find a health care twist that could let several million middle-class people get nearly free insurance. The House G.O.P. nears a patent reform bill.
The Week Ahead: Lots of Consumer Data
Monday's data will include personal spending and income. Tuesday and Friday will bring two sets of consumer confidence numbers. Friday will reveal this past month's vehicle sales. And did you know Thursday is the 58th anniversary of the Corvette?
This Week's Bests
Advice for Getting Market Share Marketer Walter Dailey shares a few lessons. For example: "Seek Out Your 'Average Customer.' Every business has an average customer - a person that consistently spends around the same amount and appears at your doorstep like clockwork. In order for you to grow, you must market to people that represent this particular customer. Why? You're most likely to already have the infrastructure and know-how to be successful with this kind of customer. Growing your share will be a matter of duplicating your existing success, rather than reinventing the wheel in order to cater to an atypical client."
Reason to Barter Barbara Taylor explains why she loves barter: "While my husband and I feel lucky to still be in business (I, too, am Staying Alive), we have had to regroup and find new ways to bolster our bottom line, which is how I came to have not one or two but three barter arrangements in place at my firm."
Spin on the World Economy Simon Hunt thinks the United States may have much to gain from a world recession: "Within a decade, the U.S.A. could supplant China as the manufacturing hub of the world ... big changes will be needed in Washington for this historic development to occur. The changes will not just be on the fiscal side, but the need to offer businesses the right incentives to produce in the U.S.A. rather than abroad, the permitting procedures to allow the development of the country's resources, including oil (the U.S.A. could become self-contained), making government less intrusive in households and businesses and so on."
This Week's Question What economic metric do you watch for your business?
Gene Marks owns the Marks Group, a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter.

        
This Week in Small Business: How to Sell Out
        
This Week in Small Business: Repeal the Tanning Tax!
        
This Week in Small Business: Is the Sky Falling?
        
This Week in Small Business: Oprah, Banks and Credit Cards
        
This Week in Small Business: T.G.I.M.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); TAX LAW (86%); TAX INCENTIVES (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); TRENDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (60%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (52%) economy; Small Business; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; United States Chamber of Commerce; dashboard

COMPANY: RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (84%) United States Chamber of Commerce

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (52%); BILL GROSS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GREECE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1033 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Handicapping Huntsman

BYLINE: STANLEY FISH


HIGHLIGHT: Jon Huntsman might have an easier time winning a general election than the nomination of his own party.

 BODY:
When I ran for the office of secretary of my freshman class at the University of Pennsylvania in 1955, my campaign manager was Jon Huntsman, father of Jon Huntsman, Jr., the former governor of Utah, former Ambassador to China and current candidate for the Republican nomination for the presidency. (I won and found, happily, that the office carried with it almost no responsibilities.) 
Huntsman senior was then attending college on a scholarship provided by a California businessman. He was good-looking, bright, outgoing and popular. We all assumed, correctly as it turned out, that he was going places. Over the years I saw news reports that placed him at the Nixon White House, in the midst of various commercial and industrial enterprises, on a list of the 50 wealthiest men in the world and on another, more praise-worthy list of the most generous philanthropists in the world. I followed him (at a distance) as one follows a school friend who has ascended to heights one can barely imagine. And now I am following his son.Does he have a chance, first to win the nomination and then to win the presidency? A better chance at the second than the first. In the current field of Republican wannabes Huntsman bears the liability of having worked for Barack Obama, in addition to the even greater liability of having refused to say harsh things about him. Huntsman is also somewhat more liberal on social issues than his competitors, is not, it would seem, a tea-party type, and has low name recognition and correspondingly low poll numbers.
But the odds begin to look a little bit better when you cast a cold eye on the field. The party, unless it is bent on suicide, is not going to nominate Michele Bachmann, Herman Cain, Sarah Palin or Ron Paul, no doubt Obama's top four candidates. Tim Pawlenty goes down in the polls every time he appears in public. Newt Gingrich has managed to become the new Harold Stassen in a single campaign. Rick Santorum is the ghost of Christmas past. If neither Jeb Bush (who would make a truly formidable candidate) nor Chris Christie gets in, that leaves Huntsman, Mitt Romney and, maybe, Rick Perry. My guess is that Perry - the secession-talking, leather-boot-wearing Texan - will not wear well nationally. It could then come down to the two Mormons. (The fact that they are both Mormons takes that factor out of the equation.)
Romney would seem to have the edge. He is next in line according to Republican traditions; he will win the New Hampshire primary; he has been though the process before and knows what to expect; everybody knows his name. 
But again, his advantages begin to fade in the light of day. True, Romney has more business experience than Huntsman, but Utah was named the best-managed state during Huntsman's tenure as governor. Huntsman has the better foreign policy experience. And perhaps most decisively, Huntsman is a human being while Romney has trouble convincing people that he believes anything or that there's anything inside him. In a contest between two millionaires voters might well give the nod to the guy who rides a Harley and plays in a rock band rather than to the guy you vote for only while holding your nose.
Let's assume - and it's a really big assumption - that Huntsman wins the nomination. Then things start looking really good. The usual "givens" will hold: the two coasts and the northeast, and maybe two states in the northwest, to the Democrats; the south, southwest and plains states to the Republicans. (Obama will not win Virginia and North Carolina this time, and Colorado will be a stretch.) So we would be back in very familiar territory with the midwest plus New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Florida as the crucial states. 
And that's where the independents come in. Independents helped Obama to his victory, but polls show that they have moved away from him. What independents look for is someone who does not seem to be partisan, isn't tied to the mast of a party. Obama now is his party; he is regarded as more partisan than he was when he ran in 2008. Huntsman stands to the side of his party, especially in his disinclination to take a "red-meat" stance toward either his fellow Republicans or the president. 
That civility may not play well with the "base" in the primaries; but it would play very well in the general election, as would a special expertise in the culture, language and economy of China, the country everyone agrees will be our rival/antagonist for the foreseeable future. Well-spoken, well-heeled, well-informed, smart, fresh-faced and cheerful, a good administrator, slightly progressive on social issues, conservative economically and savvy about foreign policy - Huntsman is an independent's dream and the Democrats' nightmare.

        
The Reluctant Mormon
        
Does It All Come Down to Medicare?
        
Very Early Exit
        
And the G.O.P. Candidates Are ...
        
Budget Politics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); PHILANTHROPY (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); CHRISTMAS (64%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (54%) Elections 2012; jon huntsman; republicans; Huntsman, Jon M Jr; Elections; United States Politics and Government; Stanley Fish

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%)

PERSON: JON HUNTSMAN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RICK PERRY (77%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RON PAUL (57%); HERMAN CAIN (57%); MICHELE BACHMANN (57%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); RICK SANTORUM (57%) Huntsman, Jon M Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1034 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo, Obama and the Realm of the Possible

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: With Cuomo riding a wave from his recent successes, there are natural comparisons to Obama and his handling of the Republican opposition.

 BODY:
The blogger Matt Yglesias and others have been critical of my article from Saturday contrasting the leadership approaches taken by New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and President Obama. Here's Mr. Yglesias:I would say that the bigger difference isn't so much about the leadership style as it is that Cuomo won. Suppose that the New York State Senate operated according to the rules of the United States Senate and a bill failed unless it secured a 60 percent supermajority. What would people be saying about Andrew Cuomo now? Well, it seems to me that many people would be castigating his failed leadership.It's unlikely, certainly, that Mr. Cuomo would have persuaded the New York Senate to adopt a same-sex marriage bill if a 60 percent supermajority had been required. (That would have necessitated 38 votes rather than the 33 the bill actually received.) But I'm not sure that really gets to the heart of my argument.
My point, rather, is that Mr. Cuomo achieved a significant and perhaps improbable victory even relative to the more modest constraints that he actually faced.
How do we "know" this? There are two pretty obvious reasons. First, a highly similar bill failed badly in the New York Senate just 18 months ago, receiving only 24 votes. And during the interim period, Republicans won control of the body from Democrats. To be sure, there were also other factors helping Mr. Cuomo -- most notably, that public opinion is shifting fairly rapidly toward acceptance of same-sex marriage. But the comparison -- 33 votes against 24 -- is nevertheless impressive.
We can also compare New York to other states. On Friday, it became the eighth state to adopt a gender-neutral marriage law (counting California and Maine, where the laws have since been repealed). But among the other seven states, all but New Hampshire and Maine did so as a direct or indirect result of court intervention. (New Hampshire and Maine are also somewhat less religious than New York, and religious affiliation is the most important predictor of public support for same-sex marriage.) That Mr. Cuomo was able to pass a bill while, for example, the governors of Rhode Island and Washington and Hawaii and Illinois and Maryland have not been able to pass one -- that's another sign that he's achieved something significant.
Neither of these comparisons are perfect -- but they're much closer than you're usually going to get in the real world to a controlled scientific experiment. We don't need to delve too deeply into the netherworld of counter-factuals to conclude that Mr. Cuomo's leadership likely made some difference.
Mr. Yglesias' disagreement, I know, is not really about my evaluation of Mr. Cuomo, but instead about the comparison I've made to Mr. Obama, who he suggests faces far more constraints than Mr. Cuomo does:[If] the US Senate operated on a 50 vote rule, then both the Affordable Care Act and the Dodd-Frank bill would have gone further in advancing progressive priorities, there would have been more economic stimulus in the 111th Congress, the DREAM Act would have passed, and it's conceivable that some kind of nationwide carbon pricing scheme would be in place.Okay, now I am going to need to engage in a hypothetical.
Suppose that Mr. Cuomo had expressed his desire to pass a marriage bill on the campaign trail, as he in fact did last year. But when he got to Albany, he decided to punt on the issue.
What would Mr. Cuomo have said? He would have mentioned that Republicans had taken over control of the Senate, something he had not necessarily anticipated. He would have reminded voters that the bill had been well short of passage the last time around. He might suggest that he thought he could round up a few more votes -- but neither he nor the Republicans saw much point in bringing up a bill that was probably going to fail. He might tell his supporters that the prospects looked pretty bright for 2013.
It seems to me that this would have been an entirely reasonable-sounding argument. When there were some annoyed posts from liberal and gay and lesbian bloggers expressing disappointment with Mr. Cuomo's decision, perhaps someone like Mr. Yglesias would have weighed in by saying that politics is the art of the possible -- and sorry, but it just wasn't going to be possible to get a gay marriage bill through a Republican majority.
The point is that it isn't always such a simple matter to know exactly what is possible and what isn't. Passing a same-sex marriage through the New York Senate might have seemed impossible this year -- until Mr. Cuomo actually did it.
This is something we ought to keep in mind when we consider the case of Mr. Obama. We might say, for example, that Mr. Obama didn't pass the DREAM Act because he didn't have the votes for it in an environment where a Republican filibuster was likely. Literally speaking, this is true: if you don't have the votes, you can't pass the bill! But it also doesn't really tell you anything -- it's a tautological statement equivalent to saying that the Cowboys won the football game because they scored more points than the Redskins.
The question, rather, is why Mr. Obama didn't have the votes for something like the DREAM Act. Or more to the point: are there alternate strategies that Mr. Obama might have pursued under which he would have had the votes? (Even the filibuster, although it has become a significant part of the Senate's culture, isn't written into the Constitution: there are options to overcome it. They may be neither feasible nor wise options, but there are options.)
Of course, now we do get into questions that are hard -- check that, impossible -- to answer. We've taken an irrevocable detour into hypotheticaland. Unlike Mr. Cuomo, Mr. Obama did not have a Democratic predecessor. Cross-national comparisons are problematic, because most other Western industrialized nations have parliamentary systems. There's not any "scientific" way to say how effective Mr. Obama has been in achieving his agenda, especially so early in his term.
But there are two types of arguments that I tend to be skeptical of. One is that the world that actually resulted (for example Mr. Obama's winning passage of a health care bill but not a climate bill) is necessarily the best possible world. This is one (perhaps slightly unfair) way to read Mr. Ygelsias' post -- that Mr. Obama accomplished about as much as could reasonably be expected under the circumstances.
The other is the argument that an alternate strategy would necessarily have produced a better outcome. These arguments take the form of: if Mr. Obama had done X rather than Y, he could have accomplished P rather than Q, or maybe even both P and Q! (The possibility that the strategy might have failed and that neither P nor Q would have been achieved is usually not considered.)
Both types of arguments are hard to prove -- or to disprove. That doesn't mean I begrudge people for making them. But they ought to be stated as speculative, rather than as self-evident truths.
This fault is easy to detect when the argument is explicitly based on a hypothetical. But Mr. Yglesias' argument implicitly suffers from the same fault: it takes for granted that the constraints Mr. Obama apparently faced (like the lack of Republican support for many of his bills) were not in some way of his own making. Even if Mr. Yglesias' point gets it more right than wrong -- as I suspect it does, since the Congress is in the midst of a long-term trend toward more partisanship -- there may have been some wiggle room around the margins.
Back in the real world, here's one thing I think we can say about Mr. Obama: he's chosen his fights carefully. The way that we "know" this is to look at Mr. Obama's failures rather than his successes.
There are essentially two ways that a president can fail when he needs the cooperation of Congress, one being that an issue fails to pass despite the president investing a significant amount of political capital in it, and the second being that he punts on the issue and doesn't devote much time to it at all.
Mr. Obama has had very few failures of the first kind -- as, for example, Bill Clinton did on his health care bill, or George W. Bush did in his efforts to privatize Social Security. Generally, when Mr. Obama has invested himself in a bill, he has secured passage of it.
On the other hand, there are a lot of fights that Mr. Obama has avoided. At least insofar as is evident from his public statements, he didn't make a major push for climate change legislation, or for an immigration bill like the DREAM Act, or for a second stimulus. He hasn't taken as confrontational a posture as he might have with Republicans on the debt ceiling.
The point is not that this is the right strategy or the wrong strategy. It might well have been the right strategy -- I don't come to a conclusion about that. But I do think it's fair to characterize it as a risk-averse strategy. And that, at the core, is what bothers some liberals about Mr. Obama's approach to the presidency. Fairly or not, they want him to push the envelope more than he has and to take a few more chances -- to expand the realm of the possible, as Mr. Cuomo seems to have done in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); MARRIAGE (88%); MARRIAGE LAW (88%); GAYS & LESBIANS (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%) Cuomo, Andrew M; Obama, Barack; Homosexuality; Politics and Government; Republican Party; New York State

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (94%); BARACK OBAMA (92%) Cuomo, Andrew M; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (98%); MAINE, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1035 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Groups Say Changes to Labor Law Won't Do Enough for Veterans

BYLINE: HEATHER TIMMONS


HIGHLIGHT: Some veterans say proposed revisions to a Vietnam-era law to help veterans get jobs are not enough.

 BODY:
Even before President Obama said last week that he would speed the pullout of American troops from Afghanistan, the Department of Labor was trying to strengthen a Vietnam-era law designed to make sure returning soldiers get jobs. 
Some longtime veterans complain, though, that the wording of the law isn't the problem. Instead, they say, the law isn't enforced well, complaints aren't handled promptly, and contractors are failing to adequately inform veterans about the law, as required. In many cases veterans don't even know the law exists, they say. 
The Vietnam Era Veterans' Readjustment Assistance Act, or VEVRAA, requires companies that have contracts with the federal government -- nearly 110,000 at last count, including companies like commercial airlines that transport mail, consulting firms and electronics manufacturers -- to actively seek out veterans when hiring, and forbids discrimination against them when filling jobs and promoting employees. 
Veterans who qualify include disabled and recently discharged soldiers and soldiers who served in military campaigns and operations for which a campaign badge or an Armed Forces Service Medal was issued. 
 "Increasing numbers of veterans are returning from duty in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere around the world only to face substantial obstacles in finding employment," the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs said in a recent report explaining why it was considering strengthening the law. 
Post-9/11 veterans have higher rates of unemployment than nonveterans and older veterans, according to a Congressional report issued in May. Some of that higher unemployment may be because the industries that often employed veterans shrank during the recession, the report found. 
Mr. Obama said last Wednesday that he would bring 10,000 troops back to the United States this year from Afghanistan and 23,000 more by next summer. 
The Department of Labor's proposed changes include requiring contracting companies to keep better data about veterans applying for jobs and hiring rates, increasing recruitment and ramping up outreach efforts to veterans. 
The government recently extended the public comment period for these changes from June 27 to July 11 and is taking comments on a federal Web site. 
Some longtime veterans complain that the wording of the law isn't the problem. Instead, they say, the law isn't enforced well, complaints aren't handled promptly and contractors are failing to adequately inform veterans about the law, as required. In many cases veterans don't even know they are eligible for preferential hiring, they say. 
Veterans groups have long criticized the Office of Federal Contract Compliance, the division of the Department of Labor responsible for enforcing the law. The OFCCP, as it is known, "has long had the (justified) reputation of being a moribund agency within the Department of Labor who did little, if anything, to help anyone, much less veterans," Rick Weidman, executive director for the Vietnam Veterans of America, said in testimony before Congress last year. 
The OFCCP should be more active, he said. "The message needs to get out that there are consequences to noncompliance," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); VETERANS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); ELECTRONICS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (54%); AIRLINES (54%) Obama, Barack; Afghanistan War (2001- ); Iraq War (2003- ); Labor and Jobs; Veterans; Labor Department (US); United States; Vietnam; At War; Employment

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%) United States; Vietnam

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1036 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Will Romney Begin Attacking Bachmann Now?

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Based on his experience with Mike Huckabee in 2007, could Mitt Romney wind up regretting not dealing with Michele Bachmann when he had the chance?

 BODY:
Is it time for Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, to turn his firepower on Representative Michele Bachmann
Four years ago, Mr. Romney's shot at the Republican nomination was dealt a nearly fatal blow when Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, emerged late in the game as the favorite of conservatives to win the Iowa caucuses.
Aides to Mr. Romney said at the time that they regretted not going after Mr. Huckabee when they had the chance, in the summer of 2007. In retrospect, they said, they could have used Mr. Huckabee's record as governor of Arkansas to tarnish his credibility with conservatives. By December, it was too late.
Now, Mrs. Bachmann has emerged as a new force in the 2012 presidential contest. In a Des Moines Register poll over the weekend, Mrs. Bachmann and Mr. Romney were virtually tied for the lead in the state. One of Mr. Romney's aides said this week that he believed she might already be "functionally" ahead of him, and predicted that polls would show her in the lead soon.
And yet, Mr. Romney has paid almost no attention to Mrs. Bachmann. As the presumed Republican front-runner, Mr. Romney has focused all of his rhetorical criticism at President Obama, ignoring his potential rivals.
In 2007, Mr. Romney's opposition research team regularly churned out unflattering information about his Republican opponents (though mostly about Senator John McCain of Arizona and Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City). This time, reporters receive few such e-mails, and Mr. Romney's early Web videos have attacked Mr. Obama's handling of the economy.
So could Mr. Romney once again regret not dealing with a rival when he had the chance? If Mrs. Bachmann wins the Iowa caucus -- and if she is able to expand her popularity beyond the Hawkeye state -- could it once again be too late for Mr. Romney?
It's possible, though there are reasons why the dynamic is different this time.
Iowa is not the must-win state for Mr. Romney that it was in 2007, when his campaign was built around the idea that a victory in Iowa would slingshot him to the nomination. An Iowa victory by Mrs. Bachmann would give her momentum heading into New Hampshire, but would not derail Mr. Romney in the same way Mr. Huckabee's victory did.
The political emergence of Mrs. Bachmann is also coming much earlier than it did for Mr. Huckabee, who glided under the radar for months in the fall of 2007, largely escaping the scrutiny of reporters.
That is not likely to be the case for Mrs. Bachmann, who will soon find herself under a news media microscope regardless of whether Mr. Romney attacks her. Rather than flying under the radar, Mrs. Bachmann could find herself with all the disadvantages of being a front-runner in Iowa.
That already proved true in a Sunday morning interview on Fox over the weekend, when the host Chris Wallace directly confronted Mrs. Bachmann by asking, "Are you a flake?" and then challenged her to rebut criticism that she says "flaky things."
And in the end, it may not be that bad for Mr. Romney if Mrs. Bachmann survives that scrutiny to win Iowa.
Strategists for Mr. Romney have always believed that the Republican race will ultimately come down to a heads-up match between an establishment Republican like him and a Tea Party conservative.
Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, is hoping to be that alternative and has also bet his campaign on winning Iowa. Other possible rivals like Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, or Sarah Palin, the former governor of Alaska, could also compete for that mantle.
But if Mrs. Bachmann takes off in Iowa, she could emerge as the one for Mr. Romney to beat. His aides might welcome the opportunity to make that case, given some of the more controversial things Mrs. Bachmann has said during her career in Congress.
On the other hand, as the experience with Mr. Huckabee shows, there are always surprises.

        
No Brawl for Republican Candidates Yet
        
Who Wins and Who Loses if Bachmann Runs in 2012?
        
2012 Republicans Embrace Nuclear Power, So Far
        
Lots of Talk, but Still No 2012 Republican Candidates
        
Romney Calls Obama 'Cavalier' on Lost Jobs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%) 2012; 2012 elections; barack obama; Michele Bachmann; mike huckabee; mitt romney; Bachmann, Michele M; Huckabee, Mike; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2008; Presidential Election of 2012; Republican Party; Iowa; Congress; Elections

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: MICHELE BACHMANN (95%); MITT ROMNEY (94%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (92%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%) Bachmann, Michele M; Huckabee, Mike; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (97%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1037 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: On Obama, Wall St. Shows a Reluctance to Commit

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Despite Barack Obama's comments about "fat cats," a number of bankers continue to back the president -- although some do it quietly. 

 BODY:
President Obama's $35,800-a-plate fund-raising dinner was the talk of Wall Street last week.
Held at Daniel, the Michelin three-star restaurant of Daniel Boulud on the Upper East Side, the event was seen as a test of the president's popularity among the deep-pocketed financiers he has often vilified but has long relied on to finance his campaign. The tables were filled with moneymen like Marc Lasry, the billionaire founder of the hedge fund Avenue Capital; Robert Wolf, the chief executive of UBS Group Americas; and Mark T. Gallogly, a co-founder of Centerbridge Partners.
The big news, however, was who wasn't there: No Jamie Dimon, once referred to as the president's "favorite banker." No Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs, a longtime Democratic supporter. Not even Richard Parsons, chairman of Citigroup and a member of Mr. Obama's transition economic advisory board.
The conventional wisdom, of course, is that Wall Street has turned its back on Mr. Obama out of frustration with his so-called antibusiness rhetoric and "fat cat" comments about bankers.
But Wall Street's absence may be more about optics - the way things appear- than reality. Behind the scenes, it seems that many bankers are not running away from the president as quickly as some might suspect.
While many of the biggest name financiers feel that they can't publicly support Mr. Obama through campaign contributions the way they did in 2008 - "it would be bad for business," one brand-name chief executive of a major bank acknowledged - some still plan to vote for him. And some begrudgingly acknowledged that they don't yet see a viable alternative to Mr. Obama among the Republican field.
It also turns out that Wall Street is not the only one concerned about optics. The president's re-election campaign has not been actively courting Wall Street's biggest C.E.O.'s to appear at such fund-raisers out of fear that their support could offend his most liberal backers, two people involved in planning his fund-raiser at Daniel said.
"A picture of Lloyd and Obama together probably isn't helpful," one of these people said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid upsetting his role in the campaign. (It is unknown whom Mr. Blankfein plans to vote for.)
While Wall Street executives still complain about the president's name-calling and pressure for a regulatory overhaul, many say privately that his bark has been worse than his bite.
"Obama hasn't been too bad to banks. He could have been worse," said a top executive at one of the nation's largest banks, a big supporter in the past who decided against attending the dinner because he did not want his colleagues and clients to see him supporting the president.
"His rhetoric was obnoxious," he added, referring to the "fat cat" comments, "but since the midterms, he's turned it off."
He pointed to the appointment of William Daley, a former senior executive at JPMorgan Chase, as the president's chief of staff as a sign of Mr. Obama's shifting approach toward big business.
None of this is meant to suggest that all of Wall Street is secretly clamoring to support the president's re-election. On the contrary, some of the industry's top players have publicly criticized the president and are financing his Republican opponents. Hedge fund managers, in particular, have moved away from the president, redirecting their money to the Republican Party.
Daniel Loeb, the hedge fund manager and longtime Democrat, famously sent an e-mail to friends last Christmas expressing his outrage about the man he once supported: "In case the president's hostage rant wasn't enough to turn you off, I thought I'd buy any of you a great book for gals who just keep on pursuing the wrong guy. Made popular on Oprah a few years back, 'He's Just Not That Into You' seems like the perfect holiday stocking stuffer for true blue Democrats who just can't get enough of our president's smackdowns on hard-working successful Americans known as 'the 2 percent.'"
Even without the likes of Mr. Loeb, however, Mr. Obama's dinner last week raised $2.3 million, outpacing an original projection of $1.5 million. And the Democratic National Committee raised $10.5 million in May, surpassing the Republican National Committee, which raised $6.2 million. The second quarter, which ends on Thursday, will give another glimpse of how the early fund-raising is shaping up.
Mr. Obama's campaign set a goal of getting 400 individuals to each help raise $350,000 by year's end. That may sound like a tall order - especially with much of Wall Street on the sidelines - but early indications suggest the effort is on track, according to people involved in the campaign.
In the last presidential election, some Wall Street C.E.O.'s took sides early. John Mack of Morgan Stanley was a Republican convert who supported Hillary Rodham Clinton. Roger Altman, the chairman of Evercore Partners, also supported her.
But this election cycle, Wall Street's Washington hands say it will be unlikely for any of the top bank C.E.O.'s to back one candidate over another publicly - at least this early - because the role of government has become so integral to these big firms.
While it may appear that a Republican candidate like Mitt Romney - a former private equity executive - would be a natural for Wall Street to support, there are still worries that he may not become the nominee. Many of the other Republican candidates - like Michele Bachmann - are not taken seriously or are too socially conservative for Wall Street.
To the extent that Wall Street does donate, big name donors are expected to spread it out in small amounts, effectively hedging their bets like any good investor.
(It is worth noting that for all the talk of Mr. Dimon's being an Obama supporter, he actually never donated directly to his presidential election. As a director of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, he is barred from donating to individual candidates, though he and his wife, Judy, have been big donors to the Democratic Party and they did donate money to Mr. Obama's Senate run in 2004.)
Of course, for all the whispered talk that parts of Wall Street will vote for Mr. Obama, there is still a lot of time for financiers to change their minds. The fact that they won't put their money where their mouth is - at least not yet - may speak volumes.

        
Financial Executives Expect Benefits From Midterm Elections
        
Stars in Finance and Media Come Out for Rattner

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); POLITICS (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%) Avenue Capital; Barack Obama; Centerbridge Partners; Daniel S. Loeb; Jamie Dimon; Lloyd C. Blankfein; Marc Lasry; Mark Gallogly; Richard D. Parsons; Robert Wolf; UBS; Obama, Barack; Wolf, Robert; Campaign Finance; United States Politics and Government; UBS AG; Mark T. Gallogly; 2012 Elections; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Wall Street

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Centerbridge Partners; UBS AG

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (89%); RICHARD D PARSONS (74%); JAMES DIMON (74%) Obama, Barack; Wolf, Robert

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2012



1038 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Consumer Spending Stalls as Wages Stagnate

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Americans in May spent at the weakest pace in 20 months, a sign that gas prices are taking a toll on the economy, according to a government report released on Monday. 
Consumer spending was unchanged in May, the Commerce Department said, the flattest level since September 2009. And when adjusted for inflation, spending actually dropped 0.1 percent.
April's consumer spending figures were revised to show a similar decline when adjusted for inflation. That represented the first declines in inflation-adjusted spending since January 2010.
Incomes rose 0.3 percent for the second consecutive month. But adjusted for inflation, after-tax incomes increased only 0.1 percent in May, after falling by the same amount in the previous month. By that measure, incomes have been essentially flat since the beginning of the year.
Slow wage growth hurts the broader economy because consumers have less money to spend. Consumer spending accounts for 70 percent of economic activity. Increases in gas prices have forced many consumers to cut back on discretionary purchases, such as furniture and vacations.
At the same time, fewer jobs and high unemployment leave workers with little leverage to ask for raises. The economy created only 54,000 jobs in May, the lowest amount in eight months. The unemployment rate rose to 9.1 percent last month.
The economy expanded at an annual rate of 1.9 percent in the January-March period. Many economists say they believe that growth is only slightly better in the current April-June period. Economists are optimistic for the second half of the year, saying growth should pick up to a 3.2 percent pace.
They note that two of the biggest factors slowing the economy are abating. Gas prices have eased since peaking in early May at a national average of nearly $4 a gallon, and American factories are expected to begin producing more once Japan's factories resume more normal operations. The March 11 earthquake and tsunami in that country has led to a parts shortage, particularly for auto and electronics manufacturers.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STATISTICS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (67%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (62%); TSUNAMIS (50%); ELECTRONICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1039 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Former Citigroup Accountant Accused of Embezzling $19.2 Million

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH; William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Gary Foster toiled away as a midlevel accountant in Citigroup's Long Island City back office, collecting around a $100,000 paycheck last year.
But federal prosecutors claim Mr. Foster gave himself a bonus fit for a star investment banker by embezzling more than $19.2 million from Citi before its auditors picked up on the scheme.
Mr. Foster, a 35-year-old former assistant vice president in Citi's internal treasury finance department, was arrested by Federal Bureau of Investigation agents at Kennedy Airport Sunday morning after returning from a trip to Europe and Asia. 
On Monday afternoon, he pleaded not guilty to charges of bank fraud at a hearing in Federal District Court in Brooklyn and was expected to be set free on $800,000 bond.
Mr. Foster, who is divorced and has two children, had been enjoying the high life. He owned six properties, including an apartment in Midtown Manhattan; two luxury apartments in Jersey City; a $1.35 million house in Tenafly, N.J.; and a $3 million home in Englewood Cliffs, N.J., that had a $500,000 entertainment system and bathroom mirrors that turned to video screens when touched, according to a law enforcement official.
He also owned a Maserati GranTurismo and BMW 550xi. A Ferrari was on order, said the official, who was not authorized to speak about the investigation.
Mr. Foster's lawyer, Isabelle A. Kirshner, said that she had spoken only briefly with her client and had just started to review the allegations.
''We will investigate the matter thoroughly,'' she said. She would not comment on her client's personal assets.
The fraud charges are the latest effort by the Justice Department to crack down on white-collar crime at a time when the agency is under increasing pressure to hold Wall Street bankers accountable. This case is against a relatively junior Citigroup executive, and appears to have little to do with the financial crisis.
Still, it is yet another embarrassment for a bank that once made its entire work force take an ethics pledge and uses ''responsible finance'' as a corporate slogan.
It also raises new questions about Citi's internal controls, nearly two years after regulators forced it to strengthen its risk management and compliance practices upon losing tens of billions of dollars during the financial crisis.
Earlier this month, the bank came under fire from lawmakers after taking more than a month to disclose that hackers stole data from more 360,000 Citi credit card accounts.
In this case, it took nearly a year after the claimed embezzlement began before Citigroup's internal auditors uncovered that millions of dollars were missing.
According to the complaint, Mr. Foster transferred the money from various Citigroup corporate accounts to his own bank account at JPMorgan Chase late last year. From July to December 2010, he moved about $900,000 from Citigroup's interest expense account and about $14.4 million from Citigroup's debt adjustment account to the bank's main cash account. Then, on eight separate occasions, he wired the money to a personal account at Chase.
To conceal some of the transactions, the complaint contended that Mr. Foster used a false contract or deal number to be placed in the reference line of the wire transfer. Mr. Foster voluntarily quit Citigroup in January, according to a person briefed on his employment. His reasons for leaving are not known.
''The defendant allegedly used his knowledge of bank operations to commit the ultimate inside job,'' said Loretta E. Lynch, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York in Brooklyn.
Citigroup detected the fraud a couple of weeks ago during an internal audit of the treasury department, where Mr. Foster worked, according to the complaint and a person briefed on the situation. The bank said it immediately contacted law enforcement officers after discovering the suspicious transactions and has put in additional safeguards and internal controls.
''We are outraged by the actions of this former employee,'' said Shannon Bell, a Citigroup spokeswoman. ''In light of the ongoing investigation, we cannot comment any further at this time.''
Mr. Foster joined Citigroup in 1999, shortly after graduating from Rutgers University with an accounting degree, according to his profile on LinkedIn. He rose to become an assistant vice president, supervising the derivatives unit in the bank's treasury finance department.
Since leaving Citigroup, he has billed himself as a part-time hedge fund consultant, according to his profile. On Facebook, he counts ''traveling the world'' as a favorite activity.
Mr. Foster was traveling in Europe and Asia, when an F.B.I. agent showed up at the home of his parents in Teaneck, N.J., early last week, according to his lawyer. Alerted by his parents, she added, Mr. Foster immediately contacted the F.B.I. agent and made arrangements to return to the United States.
Mr. Foster was arrested on Sunday morning after arriving on a flight from Bangkok.
If convicted, Mr. Foster faces up to 30 years in jail.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gary Foster, center, with his lawyers, pleaded not guilty to charges of bank fraud on Monday in Federal District Court in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBEZZLEMENT (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BONDS (77%); AUDITS (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); ARRESTS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); BAIL (72%); ETHICS (71%); CREDIT CARDS (69%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (62%); LABOR FORCE (61%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (78%); EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1040 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: No Trash, No Crash

BYLINE: By JAMES E. HALL. 
James E. Hall, a safety and crisis management consultant, was chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board from 1994 to 2001.

 BODY:
Washington
TWO years ago the world was amazed when US Airways Flight 1549 landed safely in the Hudson River after striking a flock of geese upon takeoff from La Guardia Airport. Through the heroic actions of Capt. Chesley B. Sullenberger III and his crew, and more than a little luck, all 155 people aboard survived in what was called the Miracle on the Hudson.
Incredibly, the Federal Aviation Administration has ignored the lesson from that episode and approved construction of a garbage transfer facility, known as the North Shore Marine Transfer Station, in College Point, Queens, less than half a mile east of La Guardia. Even though the facility is to be enclosed, the sight and smells of garbage passing through it will be irresistible to birds, as a possible food source, and are likely to draw birds into the path of approaching and departing aircraft, endangering the lives of passengers and people on the ground. 
The Bloomberg administration and the New York City Department of Sanitation should never have proposed putting a bird-drawing garbage transfer station so close to an airport. But even more clearly, the F.A.A. never should have allowed the project to go forward.
F.A.A. guidelines normally call for a minimum of 10,000 feet between a ''bird attractant'' like this garbage-transfer station and an airport runway, yet the proposed station is being built about 2,200 feet from Runway 13/31 at La Guardia.
Moreover, each runway has an F.A.A.-mandated protection zone, a safety buffer that must be kept clear of aviation hazards, including structures. Given plans drawn up by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which runs La Guardia, that zone should be set at 2,500 feet for that runway -- which would place the trash station squarely within it -- rather than the 1,700 feet currently used.
Rather than follow its own regulations, the F.A.A. seemingly went out of its way to approve this facility. Initially, it failed to even consider the facility's potential to increase catastrophic bird strikes to aircraft at one of the world's busiest airports. Only under Congressional pressure did it finally conduct a bird-strike threat assessment.
Usually, such studies examine a five-mile radius around the facility over a full year to assess all factors relating to weather, migration, available food and bird species diversity. But the official report of the study, submitted to the United States Department of Transportation by the F.A.A., presented data on bird activity only within a quarter-mile radius of the garbage facility, and indicated that the study was conducted over only two months, in the dead of winter.
The project's defenders have offered arguments that do not stand up to scrutiny.
The city formerly operated a garbage transfer station at the same location, without incident. But the margin of safety for aviation is necessarily small; the fact that no one was killed because of a bird strike there before is no more persuasive than an uneventful car trip in which no one wore a seat belt.
While the F.A.A. panel recommended mitigation measures like a plan to reduce the hazards associated with wildlife -- an implicit acknowledgement of the potential dangers -- bird strikes around La Guardia have been increasing for years despite such steps.
The proposed station is designed to be ''enclosed.'' But a recent F.A.A.-sponsored study found that transfer stations that were fully enclosed were just as attractive to birds as those that were not.
It's true that the birds that brought down Flight 1549 were migratory geese, not birds residing in Flushing Bay, which surrounds La Guardia. But the Flushing Bay area is a haven for geese and other bird species, and in any event, the birds that brought down Flight 1549 could just as easily have been resident gulls, which can weigh three pounds, more than large enough to disable an aircraft engine.
This garbage facility is not just a safety hazard. Its proximity and height would prevent the Port Authority from using new navigation equipment when clouds are low in the sky and visibility is poor. That equipment is vital to reducing delays and increasing capacity; La Guardia is among the worst airports in delays and cancellations, with huge costs.
Those who know firsthand just how deadly this facility may prove to be have not been fooled. That's why Captain Sullenberger and his co-pilot, Jeffrey B. Skiles, both oppose this project. (Full disclosure: My consulting firm does work for Kenneth D. Paskar, a pilot and Manhattan resident who opposes construction of the station and has challenged the project in court.)
The F.A.A. and the Port Authority should prevent the construction of this threat to public safety and economic well-being. If they don't, Govs. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York and Christopher J. Christie of New Jersey need to step in. If not, we will be left praying for another miracle on the Hudson.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VICTOR KERLOW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); BIRDS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); APPROVALS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1041 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CHAMPIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1649 words

HEADLINE: A Congressman's Pet Project; a Railroad's Boon

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON; Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla. -- Here in sun-parched Central Florida, workers are ready to break ground this summer for a 61-mile commuter rail project that the federal government ranks as one of the least cost-effective mass transit efforts in the nation.
With a price tag of $1.2 billion at completion, the rail line is expected to serve just 2,150 commuters a day when it starts operating in three years. It will not link to the Orlando airport or Disney World, among the region's biggest traffic generators. Florida's governor is even considering killing the project, worried that local government officials will rebel if they have to cover any shortfalls at the fare box.
But the so-called SunRail project has survived, at least so far, a testament to the ability of one congressman to help push through hundreds of millions of dollars in federal spending, even at a time of deep concern over ballooning federal deficits.
Representative John L. Mica, a Florida Republican and chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, has spent years badgering federal agencies, bullying state officials, blocking Amtrak naysayers and trying to bypass federal restrictions to build support and squash opposition to the commuter line. 
While Congress is often stalled or bitterly divided in dealing with some of the biggest issues facing the nation, its members are often remarkably successful in promoting industries or more parochial concerns. Mr. Mica's championing of the SunRail project has won praise among many officials and business leaders here, who say it is vital to the future of the traffic-clogged region.
But skeptics question whether Mr. Mica's real goal is to give a taxpayer-financed gift to CSX, the freight rail giant and a generous Mica campaign donor, which would get $432 million for its tracks and for upgrades to tracks it owns elsewhere in the state. Other Florida businesses close to Mr. Mica also stand to benefit if the project is built.
''His dedication to SunRail is not for mass transit -- it is for helping CSX to get government funds for its private freight lines,'' said State Senator Paula Dockery, a Republican and a chief critic of the project.
The congressman is unapologetic about SunRail. ''Everybody has different vested interests,'' Mr. Mica said in an interview. ''But you look at what is being proposed on paper, and it just make sense.''
Mr. Mica first proposed the commuter system in 1992 after he won his first race for the House after a career that included stints as a real estate developer, a lobbyist and chief of staff to Senator Paula Hawkins, Republican of Florida. The CSX track, which for decades has also been used by Amtrak, already connects a string of communities north and south of Orlando. Commuter rail, Mr. Mica argued, could carry many more passengers and be far less costly than adding a single lane to an Interstate highway.
''For as long as I have been in Congress, Central Florida has been sending its mass transit money to New York, Philadelphia, Chicago and now to other cities -- that is where our gas tax dollars have gone,'' he said.
But getting even a small fraction of the 2.3 million people living along the rail corridor to ride trains may be difficult, state officials acknowledge. Separating drivers from their cars would be like forcing Mickey and Minnie Mouse to divorce.
The federal government, wary of financing boondoggle projects, has strict rules on how ridership projections are calculated. Florida's Department of Transportation, mindful of Mr. Mica's keen interest, looked for ways to push up the number of projected riders, efforts that federal regulators found dubious.
Florida officials, for example, assumed that large numbers of commuters heading from one point in the suburbs to another would be willing to undertake a bus-to-rail-to-bus trip, a travel pattern that federal officials told them ''cannot be found on any existing commuter rail service in the United States.''
Mr. Mica describes himself as a fiscal conservative, arguing that ''all taxpayer-funded infrastructure projects must be wise investments.'' But he has pulled strings in Washington to get special consideration for the project.
That included at least $4 million in federal earmarks he lined up to buy the first rail cars for the project -- at least a decade before any trains would run. The federal grants, approved in 2003, effectively forced Florida officials to buy experimental rail cars -- now temporarily in use in Miami -- from a Colorado company whose top executive has been a campaign contributor to Mr. Mica.
In 2008, Mr. Mica helped insert language into a federal highway bill that, at least in SunRail's case, eliminated a Bush administration ban on federal financing for rail projects that did not meet certain cost-effectiveness standards. The Obama administration has since eased the eligibility rules, clearing the way for federal support for the project.
''He has been the single, clarion voice for commuter rail in central Florida for 20 years,'' said Mayor Ken Bradley of Winter Park.
But opposition had started to brew around Central Florida, including in Mr. Mica's hometown of Winter Park. Beth Dillaha, a former regional manager at a vitamin store chain, had never been involved in politics but was disturbed at what she heard.
The 61-mile project would be built in two phases, the first covering 31 miles mostly north of Orlando. During most of the day, the train would run only every two hours, with no weekend service. Even during rush hour, it would run only every 30 minutes. Initially, it is expected to serve 4,300 riders a day (about 2,150 commuters taking round trips).
If fares do not cover operating costs after seven years, Winter Park and other communities with stations, which will already subsidize the construction of the system, would be required to make up any revenue shortfalls.
''This is basically an open checkbook,'' Ms. Dillaha said. Questions were also raised by some Florida officials and Amtrak about who would cover the insurance damages if there were an accident. Ms. Dillaha, who was inspired to run for a seat on the Winter Park City Commission, and other critics grew even more skeptical as they examined the plan more closely.
Campaign finance records show that many of the contractors that worked on the project, including an engineering firm, Parsons Brinckerhoff, have been major contributors to Mr. Mica's re-election campaigns. So have businesses and individuals who could benefit from the project, including ICI Homes, a real estate developer that owns several sites close to a proposed SunRail station, and Florida Hospital in Orlando, whose $250 million expansion plan is contingent on getting a station on its property.
Executives at ICI Homes, or their relatives, have contributed nearly $70,000 to Mr. Mica over the last decade. An additional $35,000 in donations have come from staff members and lawyers at GrayRobinson, a Florida law firm lobbying for the project.
The most pointed questions have been raised about the $432 million deal with CSX. Florida officials agreed to let the freight company use the tracks it would sell to SunRail for its own trains at night. They also committed to pay for improvements to a second freight rail line owned by CSX, which would shift freight traffic in Florida to a more rural route, allowing more freight trains to run at a faster speed. Because of cost overruns, that deal might ultimately cost the state an estimated $640 million.
Ms. Dockery, who led efforts to at least temporarily block state financing for the SunRail project, has suggested that Mr. Mica has, all along, been seeking to help CSX.
Mr. Mica, in an interview, said he realized that the package would help the freight company, which is based in Jacksonville. The company's executives, including Michael J. Ward, its chairman, have donated nearly $60,000 personally or through the company to Mr. Mica and his political causes in the last decade. But both Mr. Mica and a CSX spokesman disputed any suggestion that the package was a sweetheart deal for the company.
''Obviously, they get a benefit,'' Mr. Mica said. ''But this is one of the best deals I have seen for the taxpayers.''
Federal transit officials -- after at first expressing open skepticism about SunRail -- have recently grown more supportive. The project is still ranked last in cost effectiveness by the federal Department of Transportation among all projects in final design in the country. But SunRail ranks better in other categories, including its potential to drive economic development and improve the region's air quality, giving it an overall ''medium'' rating that allows for federal support.
Still, Florida's new governor, Rick Scott, a businessman who drew Tea Party support, came into office in January unconvinced that the project was worthwhile.
He froze four contracts, worth a total of $235 million, to build rail stations and buy the first full fleet of rail cars and locomotives. He also put off the payment to CSX for its tracks, pending a final decision expected this week.
Mr. Mica has campaigned hard to win over the governor, meeting with him and soliciting local government officials to reiterate their support for the project. He also hinted that he might hold up other federal aid, telling a radio news reporter in April that money for dredging the Miami port might be at risk.
''I get to authorize the project for the deepening at the federal level,'' Mr. Mica said. ''Right now I'm studying them very closely, as the governor is studying the rail project very closely.''
Mr. Mica said he was determined, one way or another, to get the trains running. ''I am like the guy with the broom and the shovel at the end of the parade,'' he said, ''trying to keep it moving.''
The Champions: Articles in this series are examining members of Congress and their advocacy for favorite industries or causes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rail line through Orlando, Fla., would be used for the SunRail commuter train championed by Representative John L. Mica.
 Mr. Mica, shown in Orlando in April, proposed the SunRail system in 1992 after he won his first race for the House. The system has drawn criticism for its cost and its low projected ridership. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) MAPS (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RAILROAD MAINTENANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); RAIL FREIGHT (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LOBBYING (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); REAL ESTATE (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%)

COMPANY: CSX CORP (85%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (55%)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (85%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (85%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (85%)

PERSON: JOHN L MICA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (95%) FLORIDA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1042 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Sinking Poll Numbers May Put Florida in Play

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. and GARY FINEOUT; Don Van Natta Jr. reported from Miami, and Gary Fineout from Tallahassee, Fla.

 BODY:
MIAMI -- In the past few weeks, Gov. Rick Scott has traveled around the state extolling the accomplishments of the recent legislative session and promoting his success in pushing Florida down a more conservative, financially sound path.
So why is his approval rating the lowest of any governor in America?
''I don't think about it,'' Mr. Scott said in a brief interview when asked about his 29 percent approval rating in a Quinnipiac University poll conducted in May. More alarming for the governor: his negative rating has soared from 22 percent in February shortly after he entered office to 57 percent, suggesting that the more Floridians get to know him, the less they like him.
Mr. Scott, however, chalks up the numbers to his agenda. ''Everybody's scared about change,'' he said. ''I'm going to make the tough decisions because I know, long-term, they pay off. But, you know, short-term, everybody is worried about change.'' 
The promise of wholesale changes appealed to Florida voters, who overlooked Mr. Scott's lack of experience and propelled him into the Governor's Mansion last year as a Tea Party darling. But within six months of Mr. Scott's swearing-in, many Floridians seem to have soured on the governor, an unflinching former health insurance executive whose leadership style strikes some as remote and uncaring.
Mr. Scott's sinking popularity has Republican politicians and some strategists worried that his troubles could hamper their chances of tilting the state's 29 electoral votes back into their column in 2012. President Obama won Florida by 2.8 percentage points in 2008.
Republican Senate and House candidates are also worrying, strategists say, that the governor's rapidly declining popularity will affect their chances of winning election. And in Miami, two Republican candidates for mayor have distanced themselves from the governor.
State Senator Mike Fasano, Republican of New Port Richey, has verbally tussled with Mr. Scott and his staff. ''If the election was held right now, he would have no impact or a negative impact -- there's no question about it,'' he said.
Mr. Scott's unpopularity is mostly rooted in his aggressive push for large cuts in the budget and the public-sector work force, his decision to reject $2.4 billion in federal money for a high-speed rail project, and the dismissive and even abrasive way he deals with those who disagree with him or ask a lot of questions.
He also promised to create many jobs, and it has been the mantra of his tenure so far. But the state's unemployment rate, down from a high of 11.9 percent, is still at 10.6 percent, one of the highest rates in the country. Despite the governor's efforts to woo out-of-state corporations to the Sunshine State, the companies have not come in droves.
The economy also continues to reel from a shell-shocked real estate market and a push by some national Republicans to revamp Medicare, a frightening prospect for any Florida politician, given the age of so many of its residents.
''Scott is still not well known in Florida,'' said Bob Graham, a former governor and United States senator. ''Everything he does is somewhat of a new revelation on what his positions are going to be. And so far, many Floridians have found the things he has done highly objectionable.''
Brian Burgess, a spokesman for Mr. Scott, said another recent poll did not have approval ratings as low as the Quinnipiac poll.
''At the end of the day, what matters is who has a plan to create jobs,'' Mr. Burgess said. ''We like how we stack up against the national economic trend. He inherited a high unemployment rate, and it's gone down every month.''
On the Democratic side, Mr. Scott's slump may have given frustrated Democrats a reason for optimism in Florida, although they are reluctant to predict how it might affect the 2012 election.
In recent months, Mr. Obama has visited the state three times, and his trip to Puerto Rico this month, the first official visit by an American president in a half-century, was undoubtedly meant to win favor with Florida's rapidly growing Puerto Rican population.
''Rick Scott is the reason the state will be competitive for Barack Obama,'' said Mitchell Berger, a Fort Lauderdale lawyer and a longtime Democratic fund-raiser and strategist.
Mr. Berger said the governor was politically tone-deaf, pointing as evidence to the chaos at a signing ceremony for the state's $69.1 billion budget late last month at The Villages in Sumter County. Some Democrats said that they were removed from the event by sheriff's deputies, on orders of Mr. Scott's aides. News reports said that sheriff's deputies told the expelled Democrats that the event was ''private.''
Mr. Scott has had other difficulties. The Republican-dominated Legislature failed to approve an Arizona-style immigration package, one of the cornerstones of the governor's legislative agenda and a major issue for the Tea Party.
And many voters have blanched at a number of his legislative accomplishments, particularly a new state budget that puts thousands of state employees and teachers out of work and requires public workers to start paying part of their salary to cover pension costs.
Mr. Scott's staff appears to be trying to counter the negative press. His senior aides set up a way for people to send a prewritten letter of praise for the governor to seven Florida newspapers. The letter, sent by a click on Mr. Scott's Web site, was written by members of his campaign team.
''While politicians usually disappoint us and rarely keep their promises,'' the letter reads, ''Rick is refreshing because he is keeping his word. His policies are helping to attract businesses to our state and get people back to work.''
Mr. Berger, the Fort Lauderdale lawyer, said Mr. Scott's distance from the state press corps was hurting his reputation.
''Rick Scott thought he didn't need the press to get elected or to govern,'' Mr. Berger said.
''And the press is portraying him in a very bad light.''
In recent days, the pressures on Mr. Scott have led to an overhaul in his office. His chief of staff, Mike Prendergast, is leaving, and Mary Anne Carter, a senior aide who was a top strategist for his campaign, has resigned. Late last week, Mr. Scott hired a new chief of staff, Steve MacNamara, who was most recently the chief of staff and general counsel to the Florida Senate president.
Several Republican strategists said they felt confident that Mr. Scott's early missteps would not affect the results of the Florida presidential primary, and would have only a limited impact on other Republicans running for office in Florida.
''Rick Scott could be at zero percent approval, and if unemployment is at 10.5 percent or 11 percent, then Barack Obama is not getting re-elected,'' said Rick Wilson, a Republican strategist working for Adam Hasner in the United States Senate race in Florida.
For his part, Mr. Graham, the former Florida senator and governor, said a crucial question would be whether Republican candidates sought out Mr. Scott's endorsement and support before Florida's presidential primary.
''That will be an early, interesting indicator of whether voters in Florida think he's toxic,'' Mr. Graham said. ''Regardless of how that goes, I believe Barack Obama is going to be re-elected and win Florida on his own -- not because a state official has fallen in public approval.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Rick Scott has said his poll numbers are low in part because of difficult long-term budget decisions. ''Everybody's scared about change,'' Mr. Scott said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID ALBERS/NAPLES DAILY NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
President Obama, who won Florida by 2.8 percentage points in 2008, has visited the state three times in recent months, underscoring its vulnerability. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)
 Gov. Rick Scott at the budget signing in May, which was marred by reports that some Democrats were removed from the event. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE HORSFORD/VILLAGES DAILY SUN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); MAYORS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BUDGETS (64%); JOB CREATION (64%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: RICK SCOTT (93%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%); NAPLES, FL, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1043 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Board Raises Caps on Rent Increases, to the Usual Jeers

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
When a clutch of owners of small apartment buildings banded together to form an association almost three decades ago, one word was notably absent from the name they gave themselves.
Landlord.
''We stopped calling ourselves landlords in 1984,'' said Roberta Bernstein, who owns 40 apartments in Upper Manhattan. ''Landlords are people who tie tenants to railroad tracks.''
And so Ms. Bernstein and several of her colleagues anointed themselves the Small Property Owners of New York. They formed partly because landlords were unnerved by the anarchic state of affairs at the yearly meetings at which rent increases for the city's rent-regulated apartments were set. Chairs were being hurled. Landlords were getting shoved. Police officers were sent in when matters threatened to boil over. 
At this year's meeting, held Monday evening at the Cooper Union's Great Hall, the Rent Guidelines Board raised the maximum increases on rent-stabilized apartments to 3.75 percent for one-year leases and 7.25 percent for two-year leases. The increases go into effect in October.
A proposed fuel surcharge of 1 percent was not voted on. Last year, the board voted to allow rent increases of 2.25 percent for one-year leases and 4.5 percent for two-year leases.
At one point in the meeting, which was punctuated by jeering but no airborne chairs, tenant protesters drowned out the comments of a board member with shouting that continued for several minutes.
A few of the dozen or so landlords in attendance got out of their seats to stroll nonchalantly to the back, but most stayed put, burying themselves in conversation or checking their BlackBerrys, with blank faces or slight grins.
''It's calmed down a lot,'' said Jimmy Silber, a founding member of the Small Property Owners of New York.
In a city where vilifying landlords is a common pastime, and where politicians curry favor with tenants by pleading for rent freezes, Mr. Silber and Ms. Bernstein say that small property owners are a misunderstood bunch, unfairly maligned for the bad actions of a few. Their association has about 1,000 members, Ms. Bernstein said, most of whom own 10 units or fewer. Many do not have live-in superintendents; they often handle repairs themselves and work second jobs to subsidize their incomes.
''We are owners who put our life savings into our building,'' Ms. Bernstein said. ''We often make less than our tenants. We're very middle class.''
The passage in Albany last week of new rent regulations seemed to have little bearing on the tenor of Monday's meeting, from which both sides emerged dissatisfied. Under the new laws, landlords can charge market rates for vacant apartments when the rent hits $2,500, up from $2,000. A family in an apartment renting for $2,500 or above and earning more than $200,000 a year for two years could also have their apartment removed from stabilization. And landlords who renovate vacant apartments can increase the rents only by one-sixtieth of the value of the improvements, narrowing what tenant advocates called a loophole that was frequently abused.
But several landlords said that while they viewed the changes in Albany as setbacks, they were equally bothered by the relatively small increases they were allowed to pass on to long-term rent-regulated tenants. Such increases, they said, often do not allow them to cover operating costs.
Others complained about the random allocation of the city's remaining one million or so rent-regulated apartments. Landlords tell tales of rent-stabilized tenants who keep fancy cars and homes in the Hamptons. ''There is no effort to determine whether someone living in rent stabilization needs a subsidy,'' Mr. Silber said.
For their part, tenants -- citing the lasting impact of the recession -- pleaded for a freeze in rent increases, and an end to the practice of allowing landlords to charge the market rate once the rent at a vacant apartment hits a threshold.
Chris Athineos, who owns 150 apartments in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, brought his 7-year-old son, Panayoti, to the meeting. Mr. Athineos used to accompany his grandmother to these meetings decades ago, and wanted to share the process with the boy. But Panayoti spent much of the evening absorbed in his baseball video game and ignoring the shouting, glancing up only occasionally -- to yell out ''boo,'' and to ask his father when it was all going to be over so they could go eat.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jimmy Silber, far left, a member of the Small Property Owners of New York, and other supporters of the landlords at the Rent Guidelines Board meeting held Monday at the Cooper Union. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); RENT CONTROL (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (68%); LEGISLATION (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1044 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: Reaching for the Wheel

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Sandy Pope acknowledges straightaway that she faces an uphill battle -- she is the first woman to run for the presidency of the very macho Teamsters union, and she is running against a three-term incumbent, James P. Hoffa, who has the most famous last name in American labor.
But Ms. Pope, president of the Teamsters Local 805 in Queens since 2005, insists that she can pull off an upset. She argues that the rank and file are tired of Mr. Hoffa and fed up with contracts packed with concessions.
''The anger among the membership is at an all-time high,'' said Ms. Pope, who ran unsuccessfully for the union's No. 2 spot, secretary-treasurer, in 2006 as part of a dissident slate that lost by a ratio of nearly 2 to 1. ''The members are much more willing to look for change than five years ago.'' 
Although the mob influence that once pervaded the Teamsters has been largely rooted out thanks to two decades of federal supervision and scores of indictments and expulsions, the union and its 1.4 million members face other problems. Membership has steadily declined as nonunion trucking companies have taken over much of the market, and the economic downturn has made it hard to negotiate sizable wage increases or in some cases, to avoid contract concessions.
Ms. Pope's campaign will move into a higher gear after Thursday, when she expects to be officially nominated as a candidate for the presidency at the Teamsters convention in Las Vegas. A third candidate, Fred Gegare, a former supporter of Mr. Hoffa and leader of a Teamsters local in Wisconsin, is also expected to be nominated. The members of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters are scheduled to vote this fall.
Like many political candidates, Ms. Pope hopes to capitalize on an anti-incumbent fever that has been fueled by the weak economy, and she says she thinks the three-person race will give her an edge as the person least identified with the old guard and a problem-plagued status quo.
But David L. Gregory, a professor of labor law at St. John's University, questioned Ms. Pope's chances. ''I would suspect Hoffa has a lock on the presidency,'' he said. ''He seems to have solidified his base.''
Ms. Pope, who is affiliated with Teamsters for a Democratic Union, a powerful faction that has long opposed Mr. Hoffa, said she wanted to make the Teamsters a more dynamic, more combative union that energizes its rank and file far more. But even if she loses, she said, she is confident that her campaign will improve the union by propagating her vision and prodding Mr. Hoffa to adopt some of it.
She said she would have the locals do far more organizing and would move money from headquarters to the locals to pay for it. She also intends to push locals to cooperate more to increase their clout when negotiating with regional employers.
Ms. Pope said that Mr. Hoffa had not been nearly aggressive or tough enough in bargaining or organizing. She criticized several contracts negotiated in recent years, especially the one with YRC Worldwide, the biggest unionized long-haul trucking company, which included a 15 percent pay cut and exempted the company from making pension contributions for nearly two years. Union leaders justified that as an effort to keep the company out of bankruptcy and save more than 25,000 jobs, and in addition, some equity in YRC was granted to union members.
Ms. Pope, 54, is far from the traditional image of a burly male Teamsters president. She is 5-foot-6, weighs 135 pounds and has blond-streaked sandy brown hair that falls past her shoulders. A member of the union since 1978, she drove trucks in the Midwest for years, hauling steel and delivering auto parts, and obtained a black belt in tae kwan do to help protect herself.
Supporters say she is a smart, savvy operator and a charismatic speaker. And she is plenty tough, having faced sexual harassment as a driver and a lot of boos when she ran for secretary-treasurer.
''I've had to take a lot of guff,'' Ms. Pope said. ''Driving a truck is a hard job. It's hard to drive in snow and ice in Cleveland and Buffalo, going to places you don't know and making deliveries in the middle of the night.''
She recalled arriving covered in grease to truck stops that had only men's showers, often asking a waitress to stand guard while she washed up.
Still, Mr. Hoffa's forces say that they are hardly worried about Ms. Pope.
''She can wish upon a prayer of a rainbow,'' said John Murphy, a Teamsters vice president for the Eastern Region who is a member of Mr. Hoffa's slate. ''She's very critical, but she doesn't offer any solutions. She doesn't have a rationale to justify her campaign. She's a vanity candidate.''
Mr. Murphy said Mr. Hoffa -- who has led the union since 1999, after Ron Carey was forced out from the presidency in a campaign-finance scandal -- had done an excellent job.
''By any measure, what Jim Hoffa has achieved over the past 12 years has been quite remarkable,'' said Mr. Murphy, whom the Hoffa campaign put forward as its spokesman. ''He's unified the organization. He's restructured the finances. He's built up a solid strike fund, and he's stepped up our organizing efforts.''
Under Mr. Hoffa, the union has organized 30,000 private school bus drivers, monitors and mechanics and 7,500 ramp workers at Continental Airlines.
Mr. Murphy said Mr. Hoffa was negotiating the best contracts he could in tough times and pointed to the flexibility shown in the rescue of YRC and the jobs there.
''It's in times like these that the value of your union shows through,'' Mr. Hoffa and Ken Hall, his running mate and a candidate for secretary-treasurer, say in their campaign literature. ''Your Teamsters union leadership is working tirelessly, at every level possible, to protect Teamster jobs and benefits and to balance the scales that have tipped so far toward Wall Street and away from Main Street.''
The Hoffa campaign, in a Web site called truthaboutsandypope.com, accuses Ms. Pope of running down the assets from her local to less than half of the $1.75 million it had in 2005, saying she has spent extravagantly going to Teamster meetings around the country.
Ms. Pope calls the Hoffa criticisms hypocritical, saying she goes to the same meetings that most Teamster local presidents do. She said the main reason that her local's assets have dropped is that she has spent so much trying to organize nonunion workers, especially 900 at FreshDirect, the grocery delivery company.
In an unusual strategy, Ms. Pope is not fielding a full slate of two dozen candidates for national and regional positions but is instead running alone. She said many union officials backed her or wanted to work with her, but they were reluctant to join a slate because they worried that Mr. Hoffa and his allies would retaliate -- a fear that Mr. Hoffa's supporters say is unjustified.
Ms. Pope said she hoped to again see the Teamsters become the nation's most powerful union, as it was in the 1950s under Mr. Hoffa's father, Jimmy Hoffa. He was hugely popular among drivers but was convicted of jury tampering and fraud, serving time in federal prison before disappearing in 1975.
Michael H. Belzer, an associate professor of industrial relations at Wayne State University, said it would not be easy for Ms. Pope or anyone else to reverse the union's decline.
He noted that the Teamsters once represented 80 percent of the nation's long-haul truck drivers, but it now represents around only 8 percent, as many unionized firms have been pushed out of business by industry deregulation and lower-wage nonunion competitors.
''It was an enormous challenge to turn things around 20 years ago,'' Professor Belzer said. ''It's going to be much more enormous now.''
Mr. Gegare, a union member since 1972, often echoes Ms. Pope, also criticizing Mr. Hoffa for his ''top down approach'' and for relying on many unelected consultants and lawyers as his top advisers.
Mr. Gegare asserts that Mr. Hoffa runs the Teamsters ''like a family fiefdom.''
''It's time for members to be the first priority and for local unions to get back their autonomy,'' he said.
Ms. Pope acknowledges that the Hoffa campaign will have a much larger war chest than she or Mr. Gegare. As before, many well-paid officials in the union's hierarchy are expected to contribute generously to Mr. Hoffa's campaign.
''I'm counting on grass-roots organizing and the Internet, Facebook, texting and free conference calls to counter that,'' she said. ''I have regular conference calls with dozens of drivers during the middle of the night. They ask me questions and I respond. I think of winning the way the Obama campaign won -- with ground action.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2011

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Tuesday about Sandy Pope, a female candidate for president of the Teamsters union, misstated a provision of a Teamster contract with YRC Worldwide that was criticized by Ms. Pope. It granted some equity in YRC to union members, not to the union itself. (It would be a violation of labor law for the company to grant stock to the union.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sandy Pope, right, hopes to generate support from a strong anti-incumbent sentiment being fueled by a weak economy. (B1)
 James P. Hoffa, top, has led the Teamsters since 1999. Fred Gegare is also expected to campaign for president. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIE JACOBSON/ ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRUCKING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); INDICTMENTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1045 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: The Virtual Concierge

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
Some hotels have begun to expand the definition of concierge to mean more than just a knowledgeable employee. It now can also mean smart digital devices. Software companies are creating programs that offer information like restaurant tips, flight arrivals and departures and driving directions via these devices to guests at midtier hotels that do not provide traditional concierge services.
Even more upscale brands that employ human concierges are joining in, by offering location-specific information, accessible via the Internet, iPhone apps and even live chats. And all Hyatt hotels let guests send requests, via Twitter, to customer service agents who are on call 24 hours a day. 
When it comes to concierge services, ''we as an industry cannot operate in an analog way in a digital world,'' said John Wallis, global head of marketing and brand strategy for Hyatt Hotels.
With the proliferation of midprice and limited-service brands, high-tech concierge services represent an effort by hotel companies ''to differentiate themselves, to add a service that usually ranks among the highest for guest satisfaction and to achieve higher rates,'' said Bjorn Hanson, divisional dean of the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University.
He said these services could be more attractive to younger guests, while older and more international guests, he said, ''tend to prefer personal service.''
Still, the question remains whether digital concierges can ever equal their human counterparts. Henry Harteveldt, travel analyst for Forrester Research, said he did not think they would. ''Nothing will ever replace a face-to-face concierge,'' he said. ''A guest visiting a city for the first time will have a lot of questions and will need to have interaction with a concierge.''
But hotel chains are moving ahead with the digital version nonetheless. For example, InterContinental Hotels in 2007 began creating videos starring individual hotel concierges offering destination-specific advice. Today, 150 of the brand's 171 hotels have created the videos, which are available on each hotel's Web site and on YouTube and iTunes.
InterContinental is testing use by concierges of iPads with information for guests, as well as live chats between them through Skype or Apple's FaceTime. It has also developed an iPad app with destination information for guests. And guests receive an e-mail from the chief concierge five days before arrival offering suggestions and maps.
Last year, Marriott International's Renaissance hotels introduced a program called Navigator that offers suggestions for dining, drinks, shopping and sightseeing. This information, generated by Wcities, an online destination content provider, and by hotel employees, can be found on each hotel's Web page and on an iPhone app. The hotels also employ traditional concierges.
Hyatt's high-tech concierge service, at all of its hotels, is Twitter-based. Introduced two years ago, it lets guests send requests to HyattConcierge. Customer service agents must respond to messages within 15 minutes. If requests require more than a 140-character response, the agent will e-mail or call. One recent message from a guest at the Andaz Wall Street requested a hangover remedy that included two extra-strength Advil and wheat toast with butter.
Marriott International's Courtyard, a midtier brand, has gone in a different digital direction. Its GoBoard, a 55-inch touch-screen device in the lobby, uses software, from Four Winds Interactive, to provide weather and news updates, and employee picks for restaurants and local attractions. Marriott will upgrade content on the devices this summer and offer them brandwide by 2013, said Janis Milham, vice president of Courtyard.
Intelity, a software company, is working with Wyndham's Wingate hotels, Starwood's Aloft hotels and others to provide airline information as well as customized dining, shopping and recreation tips through laptops, iPads, touch-screen devices, TVs and cellphones.
Wyndham Worldwide will give owners of hotels in its 15 brands the option of offering the Intelity service to guests, said Paul Davis, senior vice president for strategic sourcing. He said some of the recommendations of service providers are paid listings by the providers.
Aloft is testing Intelity's program on iPads in hotel lobbies. Brian McGuinness, Aloft's global brand leader, said much information offered to guests was generated by hotel employees and none is the result of advertising.
One hotel brand that continues to emphasize its human concierge services is Starwood's Luxury Collection, which is training concierges at its 77 hotels to be more resourceful when helping guests. The chief concierge of the SLS Hotel at Beverly Hills, Calif., discovered, for example, when he called a guest coming from the Cayman Islands that the guest had just dropped his iPhone in the ocean. The concierge bought a new iPhone, activated and programmed it, and presented it to the guest upon arrival.
Mr. Harteveldt, of Forrester Research, warned that one downside of high-tech services could be their execution, ''if they are not updated, authentic or appropriate for the brand or guest.''
That was indeed the experience of Igor Matlin, a sales engineer in Chicago for Coverity, a software developer.
Mr. Matlin, a gold-level participant in Marriott's loyalty program, said he had been disappointed by Courtyard's and Renaissance's high-tech concierges.
He said the GoBoard was most useful for news headlines and weather. But he found restaurant information lacking on the GoBoard at the Courtyard San Diego Sorrento Mesa/La Jolla, because ''it didn't give any better results than a Google search on my phone.''
And he said he was frustrated when he got driving directions for a friend from Navigator at a Renaissance hotel in Chicago but could not forward them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wes Landsfeld of Fort Worth, using the GoBoard digital concierge at a Courtyard by Marriott in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); HOTEL STAFF (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (77%); BRANDING (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); MARKETING STRATEGY (71%); SPORTS BUSINESS (68%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (55%); SPORTS (51%); SPORTS & RECREATION (51%)

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (94%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); APPLE INC (84%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (94%); MAR (NYSE) (84%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (94%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (94%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1046 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Teacher Grades: Pass or Be Fired

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Emily Strzelecki, a first-year science teacher here, was about as eager for a classroom visit by one of the city's roving teacher evaluators as she would be to get a tooth drilled. ''It really stressed me out because, oh my gosh, I could lose my job,'' Ms. Strzelecki said.
Her fears were not unfounded: 165 Washington teachers were fired last year based on a pioneering evaluation system that places significant emphasis on classroom observations; next month, 200 to 600 of the city's 4,200 educators are expected to get similar bad news, in the nation's highest rate of dismissal for poor performance.
The evaluation system, known as Impact, is disliked by many unionized teachers but has become a model for many educators. Spurred by President Obama and his $5 billion Race to the Top grant competition, some 20 states, including New York, and thousands of school districts are overhauling the way they grade teachers, and many have sent people to study Impact. 
Its admirers say the system, a centerpiece of the tempestuous three-year tenure of Washington's former schools chancellor, Michelle Rhee, has brought clear teaching standards to a district that lacked them and is setting a new standard by establishing dismissal as a consequence of ineffective teaching.
But some educators say it is better at sorting and firing teachers than at helping struggling ones; they note that the system does not consider socioeconomic factors in most cases and that last year 35 percent of the teachers in the city's wealthiest area, Ward 3, were rated highly effective, compared with 5 percent in Ward 8, the poorest.
''Teachers have to be parents, priests, lawyers, clothes washers, babysitters and a bunch of other things'' if they work with low-income children, said Nathan Saunders, president of the Washington Teachers Union. ''Impact takes none of those roles into account, so it can penalize you just for teaching in a high-needs school.''
Jason Kamras, the architect of the system, said ''it's too early to answer'' whether Impact makes it easier for teachers in well-off neighborhoods to do well, but pointed out that Washington's compensation system offers bigger bonuses ($25,000 versus $12,500) and salary enhancements in high-poverty schools.
''We take very seriously the distribution of high-quality teachers across the system,'' he said.
The evaluation system leans heavily on student test scores to judge about 500 math and reading teachers in grades four to eight. Ratings for the rest of the city's 3,600 teachers are determined mostly by five classroom observations annually, three by their principal and two by so-called master educators, most recruited from outside Washington.
For classroom observations, nine criteria -- ''explain content clearly,'' ''maximize instructional time'' and ''check for student understanding,'' for example -- are used to rate the lesson as highly effective, effective, minimally effective or ineffective.
These five observations combine to form 75 percent of these teachers' overall ratings; the rest is based on achievement data and the teachers' commitment to their school communities. Ineffective teachers face dismissal. Minimally effective ones get a year to improve.
Impact costs the city $7 million a year, including pay for 41 master educators, who earn about $90,000 a year and conduct about 170 observations each. The program also asks more of principals. Carolyne Albert-Garvey, the principal of Maury Elementary School on Capitol Hill, has 22 teachers -- she must conduct 66 observations, about one every three school days.
''I've really gotten to know my staff, and I'm giving teachers more specific feedback,'' Ms. Albert-Garvey said. ''It's empowered me to have the difficult conversations, and that gives everyone the opportunity to improve.''
Several teachers, however, said they considered their ratings unfair.
A veteran teacher who said he did not want to criticize the school system openly, said that a month after he inherited a chaotic world history class from a long-term substitute, the visiting evaluator cut him no slack for taking on the assignment and penalized him because a student was texting during the lesson.
Another teacher who expects to lose her job next month because of low ratings said at a public hearing that evaluators picked apart her seventh-grade geography lessons, making criticisms she considered trivial. During the most recent observation, her evaluator subtracted points because she had failed to notice a girl eating during class, the teacher said.
''I'm 25 years in the system, and before, I always got outstanding ratings,'' she said. ''How can you go overnight from outstanding to minimally effective?''
A report issued by the Aspen Institute in March said one of Impact's accomplishments was to align teacher performance with student performance, noting that previously 95 percent of Washington's teachers were highly rated but fewer than half of its students were demonstrating proficiency on tests. Still, the report quoted teachers who complained of cold-eyed evaluators more interested in identifying losers than in developing winners.
''After my first conversation with my master educator, I felt it was going to be worthwhile -- she offered me some good resources,'' the report quoted one teacher. ''My second master educator was kind of a robot, not generous in offering assistance, a much tougher grader.''
This month, Mary Gloster, who taught science in three states before she was recruited to Impact in 2009, was at Ballou High, one of the city's lowest-performing schools, to share the results of some classroom visits.
She met with Mahmood Dorosti, a physics teacher who won a $5,000 award this spring. ''Don't even think about it -- you're highly effective,'' she told him.
Next was Ms. Strzelecki, 23, who came to Ballou through Teach for America. The two sat at adjoining desks, with Ms. Strzelecki looking a bit like a doe in the headlights.
But Ms. Gloster, who had watched her teach a ninth-grade biology lesson the week before, offered compliments, along with suggestions about how Ms. Strzelecki might provide differentiated teaching for advanced and struggling students.
''You did a really good job, kiddo,'' the evaluator ruled, grading her as effective, the equivalent of a B (the same rating she got on previous observations).
''What I liked about Mary was that I felt she was on my side,'' Ms. Strzelecki said later. ''Some teachers feel the master educators are out to get them.''
That is a common perception, said Mark Simon, an education analyst for the Economic Policy Institute, which receives teachers' union financing. Ms. Rhee developed the system, he noted, during tough contract negotiations and did not consult with the teachers' union in its design.
''That was a missed opportunity,'' Mr. Simon said, ''and it's created a lot of resentment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mary Gloster, left, evaluated Emily Strzelecki, a first-year science teacher at a low-performing high school in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (92%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); CHILDREN (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (74%); CHILD POVERTY (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1047 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Markets Move Higher On Optimism About Greece

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Wall Street led global stocks higher on Monday and the euro rallied against the dollar on increasing investor confidence that the Greek Parliament would pass an unpopular austerity plan and as French banks outlined an agreement to roll over Greek debt.
Treasury prices fell as the news from Europe lured investors into riskier assets, while low yields in the government's sale of two-year notes discouraged some potential buyers. 
Bank shares were among top gainers in New York markets, which rebounded after three days of losses.
''We don't see this being the start of a major rally, but this is welcome strength in the market and hopefully a welcome short-term bottom,'' said Tim Ghriskey, chief investment officer of Solaris Asset Management in Bedford Hills, N.Y.
He said financial shares were ''a very oversold group'' that was due for a bounce.
Greek lawmakers were to begin debating on Monday evening an almost $40 billion package of measures to increase taxes and cut fiscal spending that is critical to winning a new round of international funding to keep the country afloat.
''As long as the Greek Parliament votes 'yes' this week on an austerity plan, stocks are going to go up,'' said Cary Leahey, economist and managing director at Decision Economics in New York.
French banks, among the most exposed to the Greek debt crisis, reached an outline agreement to roll over holdings of maturing Greek bonds. President Nicolas Sarkozy of France confirmed the breakthrough on Monday, and German bankers voiced their interest in the ''French model.''
On Saturday, global banking regulators in Basel agreed that the biggest banks globally would need to increase their ratios of common equity to risk-weighted assets by up to 2.5 percentage points, less than the 3 percentage points some investors had feared.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 108.98 points, or 0.91 percent, to 12,043.56. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 11.65 points, or 0.92 percent, to 1,280.10. The Nasdaq composite index added 35.39 points, or 1.33 percent, to 2,688.28.
Global stocks as measured by MSCI were up 0.5 percent for the day. The FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares closed up 0.05 percent at 1,074.67 after hitting its lowest level since mid-March on Friday.
United States Treasuries fell as shrinking worries over a Greek default reduced demand for American government debt. A sale of two-year notes with a yield of less than half a percent further discouraged buyers.
Benchmark 10-year Treasury notes were fell 16/32 to 101 22/32. Its yield rose to 2.93 percent, up from 2.87 percent on Friday.
The euro rallied against the American dollar as investors became optimistic that the austerity vote would pass in Greece's Parliament and that Greece could avoid a default on its debt.
The euro had been swinging between gains and losses throughout the global session, responding to each headline or market rumor on the Greek vote, traders said.
''I think the vote will pass or we would be seeing a huge sell-off,'' said Kathy Lien, director of currency research at GFT Forex in New York. ''The fate of the euro/dollar hinges on the outcome of the vote.''
The currency was last at $1.4273, up 0.6 percent for the day, and well above the session low of $1.4101, according to Reuters data.
Crude oil futures continued to slide after the International Energy Agency's surprise release last week of 60 million barrels of oil to rein in prices. Brent futures were last up in a volatile session, supported by weakness in the dollar.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); BONDS (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); TAX INCREASES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) GREECE (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1048 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Philharmonic Announces Free Concert To Mark 9/11

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
The New York Philharmonic said on Monday that it would give a special memorial concert to mark the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 terror attacks: a free performance of Mahler's Symphony No. 2, the ''Resurrection,'' at Avery Fisher Hall.
One of the first major 9/11 cultural remembrances announced so far, the concert will be broadcast live on the radio and projected on a screen in Lincoln Center's plaza. It will actually take place at 7:30 p.m. on Saturday, Sept. 10, and be rebroadcast on PBS the next evening. 
Philharmonic officials described the concert as a gift to the city, but they also acknowledged that the planning for it, as well as a decision to perform on Sept. 15 in Central Park with the tenor Andrea Bocelli, had contributed to the absence this summer of the orchestra's traditional, beloved concerts in the parks, which normally take place in mid-July.
''For me the most important element was not the parks, but to do something on the 10th of September,'' Zarin Mehta, the orchestra's president and chief executive, said. ''That was the most important gesture.''
The Philharmonic had originally envisioned a 9/11 commemorative concert on the Great Lawn of Central Park and had planned to accompany it with parks concerts in other boroughs during the days before, according to Mr. Mehta. Discussions with the Parks Department began more than a year ago, he said. The orchestra players had been scheduled for vacation that week, so to make up for the lost days, management gave them the week of July 11 off -- when the parks concerts would have taken place.
Then last fall brought an offer from Mr. Bocelli and his backers, which include the Barilla pasta company and Decca Records. The Philharmonic agreed to accompany him and guest artists -- for an undisclosed fee -- in a free Great Lawn concert that will be broadcast by PBS and turned into a CD and DVD. A large stage and giant screens are envisioned. The orchestra's music director, Alan Gilbert, will conduct. The concert has a Web site,bocellicentralpark.com.
''I didn't think there was a conflict,'' Mr. Mehta said. ''One was on the 10th, and one was on the 15th'' of September. ''At that stage, the enormity of the Bocelli production was not known,'' he said. The Bocelli concert made ''good economic sense'' for the Philharmonic, he also said.
But early this year, Mr. Mehta said, the Parks Department and the Central Park Conservancy told the orchestra that both events would be too damaging to the lawn. So Mr. Mehta moved the 9/11 concert to Avery Fisher.
He said he decided not to send the orchestra to the other boroughs in the week before Sept. 10 without an anchor concert in Central Park. ''Without Central Park, I can't afford to do the other boroughs,'' Mr. Mehta said.
Most of the money to pay for the parks concerts comes from Didi and Oscar Schafer, patrons who donated $5 million for five years of the program, starting in 2008. Mr. Mehta said the money saved by not giving parks concerts this summer would be used to extend the financing for another year, to 2013.
The orchestra said more than 14 million people have attended the concerts since 1965. The Schafers are contributing toward the 9/11 performance, along with Alec Baldwin, a Philharmonic board member; the board member Antonio Quintella and his wife, Gabriela; and Credit Suisse.
The Metropolitan Opera began performing operas in the parks in 1967 but stopped in 2008 to save money, presenting recitals instead.
The Philharmonic had previously announced that orchestra vacation changes because of September events, including the Bocelli concert and a make-up concert at Avery Fisher of William Walton's music from the movie ''Henry V,'' narrated by Christopher Plummer on Sept. 17, would preclude the regular parks concerts, a move that provoked critical reaction. The Daily News said in an editorial that New Yorkers were being deprived. The Brooklyn Philharmonic, which has performed little as an orchestra the past few seasons because of lack of money, issued an open letter offering its services.
Mr. Mehta sounded perturbed that attention was being focused on the lack of parks concerts rather than on the memorial concert. ''This is something we tried to do rather special for New York and all over the world,'' he said, ''and in the end we're being criticized for not doing parks concerts.''
Not only that, he said, but the parks hiatus was also only for one year; the Philharmonic was still giving a free concert in Central Park; and the memorial concert was also free and would be broadcast in the plaza for all to see.
''I don't think we should be criticized for something which was largely not of our making,'' he said. ''Nobody here is happy about the fact there will be no concerts in the boroughs.''
The Philharmonic also said on Monday that it would present performances on Sept. 7 and 8 of Leonard Bernstein's score to ''West Side Story'' during screenings of the movie at Avery Fisher.
One question that remained was the fate of city money that the orchestra receives every year to support the parks concerts. Mr. Mehta said orchestra and city officials were discussing the matter.
The Philharmonic said the soprano Dorothea Roschmann and the mezzo-soprano Michelle DeYoung would sing the solo roles in the Mahler at the memorial concert.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The tenor Andrea Bocelli plans a free concert in Central Park on Sept. 15. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLY RALL/GETTY IMAGES)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); MUSIC (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PASTA & NOODLES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1049 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Nation Goes on Its Merry Way to Ruin

BYLINE: By PAM LUECKE. 
Pam Luecke is the Donald W. Reynolds professor of business journalism at Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Va.

 BODY:
RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT
How Outsized Ambition, Greed, and Corruption Led to Economic Armageddon
By Gretchen Morgenson and Joshua Rosner
Illustrated. 331 pages. Times Books. $30.
Although the financial crisis of 2008 has left a long trail of casualties, one group has benefited from the cataclysm: financial journalists. Several have already published books shedding light on the unprecedented events that caused investment banks to fail, global stock markets to plummet and borrowers to lose their homes. ''Reckless Endangerment,'' by Gretchen Morgenson, assistant business and financial editor and a columnist at The New York Times, and the financial analyst Joshua Rosner, is a worthy addition to the genre.
The authors are forthright in their intentions. They are angry about the ''outsized ambition, greed, and corruption'' that led to ''economic Armageddon,'' as the book's subtitle puts it. They view the actions that prompted the meltdown as reprehensible and regret that few of the perpetrators have been held accountable. 
In a direct writing style familiar to those who follow Ms. Morgenson's Sunday ''Fair Game'' column, the authors piece together the rapid rise in high-risk mortgages and the swift collapse of the complex financial scaffolding that supported them. Ms. Morgenson joined The Times in 1998 after working at Forbes, Money and Worth magazines and won a Pulitzer Prize in 2002 for her coverage of Wall Street. She also worked as a broker at Dean Witter. Mr. Rosner is a partner at Graham Fisher & Company, an independent research firm, and worked for many years at Oppenheimer & Company.
Drawing on their deep expertise, the authors ably trace the legal and regulatory changes that stoked the unsustainable housing boom. With a few exceptions, the book focuses more on policy and power than on personalities, and it illuminates several small decisions that later had huge, unintended consequences. For example, a modification in the handling of bundled loans, approved by the international Basel Committee on Banking Supervision in 2001, more than any other factor, ''opened wide the floodgates for the mortgage securities mania,'' the authors write.
The book begins in 1994 with President Bill Clinton's kicking off a public-private partnership to extend homeownership to more Americans. At that time 64 percent of Americans owned their homes; within a decade the percentage would rise to nearly 70. Yet an idea that sounded so appealing would soon be exploited by institutions and individuals who detected the potential for astounding profits.
Ms. Morgenson and Mr. Rosner finger the usual suspects: subprime mortgage lenders, credit-rating agencies, investment banks, politicians, the Federal Reserve.
But the institution to which the authors devote the most ink is Fannie Mae, the government-supported enterprise created in 1938 to make home loans more accessible. And the person they hold most accountable is someone whose role in the ''mortgage maelstrom'' has until now ''escaped scrutiny'': James A. Johnson, Fannie Mae's chief executive from 1991 to 1998. Mr. Johnson was the ''anonymous architect of the public-private homeownership drive that almost destroyed the economy in 2008,'' the authors assert. ''He was especially adept at manipulating lawmakers, eviscerating regulators and leaving taxpayers with the bill.''
The description of Mr. Johnson's role is damning -- and although the account lacks his perspective, it is thoroughly supported through scores of interviews with academics, government officials and industry executives, some of whom are granted anonymity. While Mr. Johnson didn't respond to interview requests over five months, according to the authors, they overcome this obstacle with impressive use of public records and secondary sources, carefully attributed in the text or described in a two-page ''Notes on Sources.'' Still, more specific references in endnotes would have strengthened the book's authority, and in some places would have improved the narrative's flow.
''Reckless Endangerment'' will never be mistaken for summer beach reading, but the authors explain the minutiae clearly, pausing often to explain a dense financial concept or to inject a clarifying metaphor. Lax regulation is effectively likened to ''allowing the lead-footed drivers to set speed limits.'' Less effective is a comparison of Wall Street's hope for profits from subprime lenders to ''Elmer Fudd envisioning a duck a l'orange dinner when stalking Daffy Duck.''
A particular strength of this book is the number of doubters the authors unearthed: the unsung government analysts, public lawyers and private researchers who dared to question policy decisions and stand up to the formidable ''housers,'' as the true believers in government subsidies for home ownership are called.
The reader has a sickening sense of missed opportunity as these prophets are ignored or, worse, vilified, by those in a position to halt the mania. When a Congressional Budget Office researcher in 1995 reveals the multibillion-dollar extent of the government's subsidy to Fannie Mae and its brother institution, Freddie Mac (and that one-third of these benefits never reached borrowers), he suggests that ''Congress may want to revisit the special relationship.'' Unable to assail the merits of his analysis, outraged Fannie Mae executives resorted to ad hominem attacks, calling budget office officials ''digit-heads'' and ''economic pencil brains.''
One of the doubters was Mr. Rosner himself, who in a 2001 report warned about the potential for economic ruin for American consumers as they took on more and more home debt. Washington regulators met his 30-page paper ''with a dismissive silence,'' the authors say.
Unlike some whodunits, ''Reckless Endangerment'' has no tidy ending. Millions of homes remain in foreclosure, high unemployment persists, and, the authors say, Congress failed to pass truly corrective legislation when it had the chance. Although Ms. Morgenson and Mr. Rosner hope that shining a light into the dark corners of this ''economic Armageddon'' might prevent another one, they sadly conclude that something similar ''most certainly'' will happen again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 HOEBERMANN STUDIO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (71%); CREDIT BUREAUS (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); APPROVALS (63%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%)

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (66%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Reckless Endangerment: How Outsized Ambition, Greed, and Corruption Led to Economic Armageddon (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1050 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Lots of Talk, Too Little Action: The G-20 summit meeting on soaring food prices failed to do what is needed

 BODY:
The price of agricultural commodities has surged by more than a third over the past year -- cereal prices by 70 percent -- surpassing even the levels that sparked widespread food riots in 2008. According to the World Bank, the rise in prices pushed 44 million more people into hunger in the second half of 2010. 
It is disappointing that the agriculture ministers from the 20 large industrial economies who gathered last week in Paris failed to end two policies that are a big part of the problem: bans on agricultural exports by certain producers and government supports for food-based biofuel production.
A report for the Group of 20 meeting by the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization, the World Bank and others noted that eliminating or curtailing these policies would help mitigate the spikes in prices that have deepened hunger in the poorest countries in the world.
The United States, Brazil and several other biofuel makers opposed an agreement to cut support for biofuels. This country is the world's biggest ethanol producer. The 13.5 billion gallons made here last year used about 40 percent of the nation's corn crop. Government supports include a nearly $6 billion annual subsidy for ethanol makers.
The ministers agreed only to further study the relation between biofuel production and food prices. That is just an excuse for continuing to protect these industries. The cost should be clear to all by this point. The report to the Group of 20 noted that biofuels consumed 20 percent of the global sugar cane crop between 2007 and 2009, when food prices soared, as well as 4 percent of the beet crop and 9 percent of the world's production of coarse grains like corn.
The ministers also failed to forbid the use of export barriers to hold down food prices at home. Argentina, Russia and more than two dozen others have adopted bans since prices began to surge, sending global prices even higher and discouraging investment in food producing regions. The ministers did agree that countries could not restrict sales to the World Food Program so it can continue to address crises. It is not enough.
The agricultural summit meeting, the first of its kind, did make some progress. The participants agreed to set up a system to monitor world food stocks and production to prevent misinformation that can contribute to price fluctuations. They also agreed on a pilot program for an emergency food reserve system to respond to shortages in vulnerable countries.
More aggressive action is needed. High energy prices and irregular weather patterns are likely to keep food prices volatile, even as demand increases from fast-growing developing countries. The first step to ensuring a steady food supply is to eliminate the most egregious distortions in agriculture policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (92%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BIOMASS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); SUGAR FARMING (78%); ALCOHOLS (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); GRAIN RESERVES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (75%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (75%); ETHANOL (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (73%); RIOTS (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); WEATHER (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (92%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1051 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Bachmann Opens Campaign as Expectations Grow

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WATERLOO, Iowa -- Representative Michele Bachmann's presidential candidacy, which she formally opened here on Monday, shakes up an already unsettled Republican field and creates one of the biggest tests yet for the breadth of the Tea Party movement's appeal.
As she returned to her childhood home in Waterloo, where she lived until the age of 12, Mrs. Bachmann asked voters to ''make a bold choice'' as they weigh the Republican contenders. She presented herself as a forceful conservative, unafraid to confront the party establishment and unwilling to compromise on its principles in her quest to win the nomination to challenge President Obama. 
''I seek the presidency not for vanity,'' she said, ''but because America is at a crucial moment.''
The expectations for Mrs. Bachmann, who ascended from little-known member of Congress from Minnesota to nationally revered figure among social conservatives and Tea Party activists, have increased significantly since she first hinted at the idea of running for president only a few months ago.
On the eve of her announcement, she was locked in a statistical tie with Mitt Romney in The Des Moines Register's Iowa Poll, the first survey of voters who say they plan to attend the Republican caucuses that open the presidential nominating contest early next year. Her name recognition and high visibility contributed to her rapid rise, advisers said, and her challenge now is to build a campaign structure that can capture the grass-roots enthusiasm surrounding her.
The Iowa Straw Poll on Aug. 13, which she described as ''a big deal'' to an audience of admirers here, will be the first test of the depth of Mrs. Bachmann's support. She has brought on a team of new strategists, several of whom were at the side of Mike Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas, when he won the Iowa caucuses in 2008.
Mindful of how Mr. Huckabee surged four years ago, her Republican rivals are paying close attention to Mrs. Bachmann. Tim Pawlenty, a former governor of Minnesota who probably has the most to lose if her candidacy takes off, released a radio advertisement in Iowa with the slogan ''Results, not rhetoric.''
Mrs. Bachmann, 55, was once seen as an understudy to Sarah Palin. But Mrs. Bachmann has essentially reversed roles, plunging ahead into the campaign to fill what she perceives as a void in the field.
Ms. Palin is scheduled to arrive in Iowa on Tuesday to attend the premiere of a documentary on her life, ''The Undefeated,'' a rare appearance here that is sure to stir speculation about her political intentions. But by the time she arrives, Mrs. Bachmann will be well into her three-state announcement tour, with stops in New Hampshire and South Carolina, which hold the first primaries next year.
While Mrs. Bachmann announced her candidacy at her party's first major presidential debate two weeks ago, she made it official on the steps of the Snowden House, a historic brick building in downtown Waterloo. Her message to a crowd of about 200 people, including a large contingent of relatives, on a sun-splashed morning was accompanied by an occasional chorus of honking horns, as trucks passed on a nearby highway.
She introduced herself as a candidate with broad appeal, acknowledging the spirit of Tea Party activists, but pointing out that she also hails from a long line of Democrats. (Yes, she conceded, she once volunteered for the presidential campaign of Jimmy Carter.)
''Our problems don't have an identity of party, they are problems created by both parties,'' Mrs. Bachmann said. ''Americans agree that our country is in peril today and we must act with urgency to save it. Americans aren't interested in affiliation. They are interested in solutions and leadership that will tell the truth.''
By declaring her candidacy in Iowa, she signaled that the state is a critical piece of her strategy. But it remains less clear how essential the Iowa caucuses will be in selecting the party's nominee.
Mr. Romney, who won the Iowa Straw Poll four years ago and finished second in the caucuses, is declining to participate in the straw poll this time. He has played coy about his overall Iowa strategy until the field emerges. The rise of Mrs. Bachmann could create an opening for an alternative candidate, particularly a former governor like Mr. Romney or Mr. Pawlenty, or it could push the electorate to the right and make the Iowa caucuses less relevant.
Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said candidates would be unwise to bypass the state, particularly because of its importance as a general election battleground. (Mr. Obama is heading to Iowa on Tuesday, countering the parade of Republicans visiting the state.)
''The weakness of the economy makes it possible for almost any of those candidates to give President Obama a race and possibly win,'' Mr. Grassley said in an interview on Monday. Asked about the prospects of Mrs. Bachmann, he paused a moment and said: ''Of course she could be the nominee. She's got a commitment to a cause, and she sticks to it.''
A wide circle of relatives and friends surrounded Mrs. Bachmann, including Bruce Munson, a cousin, who joined for a family picture after her speech. Mr. Munson said the nation would grow to love her tenacity, adding, ''If anyone can break the glass ceiling, it will be Michele.''
Mrs. Bachmann, who rose to prominence with her evocative quips and spirited presence in television interviews and appearances at Tea Party rallies last year, has also experienced a string of gaffes. She added a new one to the list during her visit back to Waterloo, a city that she left in 1968.
She spoke adoringly of her town, recalling the Dairy Queen, her house on East Ninth Street and the Wonder Bread Factory, where her mother picked up ingredients for her favorite mayonnaise and lettuce sandwiches. But as she stood in her old neighborhood, she misstated a piece of Iowa lore as she explained the important role that Waterloo had in shaping her character.
''John Wayne was from Waterloo, Iowa,'' Mrs. Bachmann told Carl Cameron of Fox News in an interview. ''That's the kind of spirit that I have, too.''
The actor was actually born in Winterset, Iowa, which is about 150 miles southwest of Waterloo. It was John Wayne Gacy, known as the killer clown who raped and murdered 33 teenage boys in the 1970s, who lived in Waterloo.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Announcing the Candidates: The words used most frequently by Republican presidential candidates in their announcement speeches. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONATHAN CORUM/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Representative Michele Bachmann spoke in Waterloo, Iowa, where she lived until age 12. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF HAYNES/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%)

PERSON: MICHELE BACHMANN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (97%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1052 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Behind Cuts, Real Faces And Fortunes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
E-mail: powellm@nytimes.com

 BODY:
They might be seen as the tiniest of cogs in the vast machinery of municipal government: Selina Sharmin, a Queens librarian by way of Bangladesh, and Estena Powell, a Manhattan park worker by way of the South Bronx.
Each woman takes pride in her labors. Ms. Sharmin speaks of the oasis a good library offers a new arrival, and Ms. Powell takes prickly pride in shooing away the ''stragglers and whatnot'' who loiter too near toddlers in a playground west of Times Square.
Yet each has spent the past few weeks worrying that her job could fall victim to budget cuts. Their worries might draw a shrug from some of us; these are storm-tossed days. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg noted this past weekend that the city had sidestepped the worst of the pain visited on much of the nation. A few aides also pushed the notion that the City Council had fallen for the mayor's bluff. 
But that raises a different question: The mayor plays a reasonable hand of political poker, but is the city the better for that this year? Was the threatened mayhem -- the thousands of layoffs and firehouses closed -- an attempt to reimagine the city in rough times, or just a sound-and-light show?
The mayor has no discernible taste for second-guessing. Ask about his credibility, and he purses his lips. ''My family trusts me,'' he says. ''I mean, what do you mean, 'credibility'?'' Then he rattles off his greatest hits: balanced budget, safe city, fewer fire deaths.
''Stop me when you get bored,'' he advises reporters.
Consider me just confused.
Mr. Bloomberg's aides privately made a reasonably persuasive case that New York had too many fire stations, noting that fires were down and demographics had changed sharply. A former high-level city official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity as the mayor is a wealthy fellow with a long reach, said: ''Firehouses are located on a 100-year-old map that we should have torn up a long time ago. It is worth a managerial scrub. But it's just a negotiating point.''
In fact, the mayor played those cuts as call-and-response. He drew his cutting knife, unions squawked and picket signs bobbed, and the City Council stepped in to ''rescue'' the station houses.
The teachers proved a no-less-baffling exercise. To lay off 4,000 teachers made little public policy sense. Class sizes are on the rise, as the Independent Budget Office pointed out in a smart piece of analysis in May, and so is the number of schoolchildren.
A SINGLE indicator tells this story: five years ago, 400 third-grade classes had more than 30 students. This year, there are 4,000 such overcrowded classes.
Some restorations suggest sleight of hand. The City Council and the mayor congratulate themselves annually on saving six-day-a-week library service. But most libraries in Queens and Brooklyn, home to more than half of the city's population, already have trouble staying open five days a week.
In Brooklyn, overall library hours have fallen nine hours per week in the past year.
You might argue that tough choices are daily chowder for political leaders. But what is striking is that Mr. Bloomberg, like Gov. Chris Christie in New Jersey and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo in Albany, has yanked a set of choices off the table: namely, raising revenue.
In a city gilded at its Manhattan core, Mr. Bloomberg treats talk of tax increases as class warfare of the crudest sort. An income tax surcharge on the wealthiest, or a flea-on-the-elephant's-back surcharge on hedge fund trades, would raise enough money to allow parks -- which are bleeding workers -- to retain staff members and libraries to restock books.
I don't want to overstate the pain; the apocalypse is not at hand. But class sizes will swell and libraries will cut around the edges. And those cogs, Ms. Sharmin and Ms. Powell, will try to save a bit against the still-present possibility of unemployment.
Not long ago, the city budget director, Mark Page, suggested that libraries are ink-on-paper artifacts in the Web age. To test this unfortunate hypothesis, he might hop the E train to a Queens library, where he could sit in on a Bengali reading hour with hundreds of children.
Ms. Sharmin worries for her future, of course. But ask if libraries might go the way of dirigibles, and this soft-spoken woman turns slightly stern.
''Now I have to speak as a librarian,'' she says. ''To run a business, to run a city, you need people behind desks. Here, that person is a librarian.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CHILDREN (75%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1053 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM FRANCE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Socialists Struggle to Regroup After the Fall of Strauss-Kahn

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

 BODY:
PARIS -- Pierre Moscovici, a Socialist legislator, is ''in mourning,'' he said in an interview, and so are the Socialists. With the shocking fall of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the party leader who was arrested in New York in the sexual assault of a hotel housekeeper, the party is trying to pick up the pieces -- and to pick a presidential candidate from an uninspiring set of choices.
Mr. Moscovici was one of the closest allies of Mr. Strauss-Kahn, his former teacher, known as D.S.K. He was deeply involved in preparing the campaign that was expected to sweep Mr. Strauss-Kahn and the Socialists into the presidency next year for the first time since 1995. 
The Strauss-Kahnians, as his supporters are known, are unsure where to go after the loss of their champion. Mr. Moscovici, 53, a former minister for European affairs, is thinking about throwing his own hat into the ring, because he is not overwhelmed by the other candidates and to make sure the ideas of the center-left are heard.
''It's a shock, a human shock,'' he said of Mr. Strauss-Kahn's arrest. ''For us it's a new deal, and a more complicated one. There's no clear favorite, and there probably won't be.''
Even the support group called Generation-D.S.K. has changed its name to the faceless and numerically challenged ''Generation4G,'' which stands for Generation Gagner, Gouverner a Gauche, or ''generation to win and govern on the left.''
To pick a candidate, the Socialists have scheduled a two-round primary for October. The only serious candidates so far, with the entry deadline coming soon, are Francois Hollande, 56, a legislator and former party leader, and his former partner, Segolene Royal, 57, with whom he has four children and who lost the 2007 election to Nicolas Sarkozy.
The current party leader, Martine Aubry, 60, was expected to announce Tuesday morning; she had a now-irrelevant agreement with Mr. Strauss-Kahn not to run against him. Mr. Hollande, who also runs the small departmental government of Correze, is currently in the lead, according to opinion polls, and he has had the time to prepare himself -- he has lost considerable weight -- and his campaign, which was originally aimed at defeating Mr. Strauss-Kahn.
But none of these candidates, or Mr. Moscovici himself, has the domestic or international stature that Mr. Strauss-Kahn had, and it is less clear that any of them will be able to appeal to centrist voters as he did. ''The battle is open, but the risk is to have a very divisive fight,'' Mr. Moscovici said. ''This is 'the narcissism of small differences,' as Freud said. The candidates are really not so different.''
Making matters more complicated, the primary system the Socialists have outlined is odd, with any French person who states ''sympathy with the left'' being eligible to vote. Voters do not have to be party members or even registered to vote.
The head of Mr. Sarkozy's party, Jean-Francois Cope, has charged that the primaries are open to abuse, since records will be made of those who evince a sympathy for the left. The Socialists say those records will be destroyed within a week and accuse Mr. Cope of making mischief. But Mr. Moscovici said he was more concerned that since anyone can vote, Mr. Cope ''can send out a message to thousands of Sarkozy supporters'' telling them to vote for a weak Socialist candidate.
It is early yet, with the presidential election scheduled for next May, but the opinion polls continue to show Mr. Sarkozy in a weak position in his effort to win a second five-year term. Both Mr. Hollande and Ms. Aubry would beat Mr. Sarkozy in a second-round runoff, and Ms. Royal would come close.
''The good news,'' Mr. Moscovici said, is that ''Sarkozy is still in terrible shape.'' Even after Mr. Strauss-Kahn's disappearance, ''people still reject Sarkozy and expect a new president,'' he said. ''Almost any Socialist defeats him.''
Still, he conceded, ''there is some new doubt among us and around us about whether in the end we will win this election.'' The Socialist campaign is dominated by Mr. Hollande and Ms. Aubry, he said, ''but no one clearly sees them as presidential.''
Mr. Sarkozy is a skillful campaigner, and while the French do not like him very much, they do like a number of his policies, including his management of the economic crisis and his leadership in the war to oust the Libyan leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi.
Mr. Sarkozy is trying to consolidate the center-right behind him and see off potential candidates in the tricky first round of the election. The loss of Mr. Strauss-Kahn is considered to leave more room for a centrist candidate, and a divided center-right, given the strength of the far right National Front behind Marine Le Pen, could result in Mr. Sarkozy running third in the first round and being eliminated.
But the same risk exists on the left, where numerous candidates from the Greens to the far left could divide the vote, pushing the Socialist candidate into third, which happened in 2002.
While for the moment Mr. Sarkozy is most concerned with undermining the support for Ms. Le Pen, the easiest path for his re-election would be to run against her in the second round.
For Mr. Moscovici, the temptation to run in the primaries is strong, but he fears further dividing the party. If Mr. Strauss-Kahn had decided not to run a year ago, Mr. Moscovici would have run, he said.
For now, he has sent a set of policy ideas to Mr. Hollande and Ms. Aubry, who have both approached him for support, and he is weighing his choices.
''Above all, we need to have good primaries and a good debate,'' Mr. Moscovici said. ''And then we need to get together after the primaries and run a good campaign against a very good campaigner.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pierre Moscovici said he and other French Socialists are unsure where to turn for leadership. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER LABAN-MATTEI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); ARRESTS (72%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (57%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (94%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); SEGOLENE ROYAL (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1054 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Central Banker, Fearing Reprisals, Quits Post Amid Inquiry Into Scandal

BYLINE: By ALISSA J. RUBIN; Rod Nordland, Sharifullah Sahak and Sangar Rahimi contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- Citing fear of reprisals and political interference in his investigation of the largest financial scandal in the country, the governor of Afghanistan's Central Bank announced his resignation Monday while in the United States, saying that he no longer felt safe in Afghanistan.
The banker, Abdul Qadeer Fitrat, made his resignation public in telephone interviews with Afghan radio stations and in a pointed resignation letter, which was e-mailed to reporters. He has been under near constant criticism and the threat of legal action from the attorney general, who is appointed by President Hamid Karzai, since he began to speak out publicly about the fraud at the Kabul Bank, the nation's largest private bank. 
The bank's near collapse involved years of malfeasance by politically connected bank shareholders, including the brothers of both Mr. Karzai and the first vice president, Muhammad Qasim Fahim, who along with other shareholders took more than $900 million in loans, many of them interest free with no repayment plans.
The bank's troubles and the government's failure to deal with them was one of several issues that caused the International Monetary Fund to suspend its program with Afghanistan, which had the effect of halting the country's access to some foreign aid money and threatens to reduce sharply the country's ability to access the Afghan Reconstruction Trust Fund, administered by the World Bank.
The Kabul Bank scandal and the corruption and favoritism it revealed has worsened the already tense relationship between the Afghan government and the United States, which has led the nearly 10-year-old war here to rout the Taliban and Al Qaeda and is now beginning a partial military withdrawal.
Mr. Fitrat's resignation is the latest chapter in the 18 months since the bank's troubles began to become public, but it is one that threatens to lay bare the extent of the Afghan government's efforts to cover up the fraud. If, as Mr. Fitrat's resignation letter implies, the government has made an effort to block investigations into the bank and to avoid the prosecution of shareholders, it would tarnish the Afghan government as well as its NATO allies, who have said little publicly about the debacle.
In his resignation letter, Mr. Fitrat said that not only had the government failed to support his investigation, but that some shareholders ''went on the counteroffensive and used law enforcement agencies against the staff of the central bank.''
''Unfortunately the central bank's independence on regulatory and supervisory matters has recently been undermined by repeated interference from high level political authorities,'' the letter said.
It was not immediately clear when Mr. Fitrat left Afghanistan for the United States and what he intended to do next. Reuters, which was among the first to report his resignation, said it had interviewed Mr. Fitrat at a hotel in Chantilly, Va.
In an interview broadcast on Ariana television, an Afghan station, Mr. Fitrat said that after he appeared before Parliament in April and described the details of the fraud at Kabul Bank and called for prosecution of wrongdoers, he learned that ''some known circles were plotting against me, and I'm not going to name anyone, but I decided to resign my post.''
A response came quickly from Mr. Fitrat's opponents, including Azizullah Ludin, head of the president's high commission on corruption, who has been looking into the bank's troubles. He suggested in an interview with The New York Times on Monday evening, that Mr. Fitrat was at fault for failing to detect the bank's problems and was involved himself in the fraud.
Western officials here view Mr. Ludin with skepticism and say he is politically motivated. He was the chairman of the Independent Election Commission during the 2009 presidential election when a million votes were thrown out because of fraud, the majority of them for Mr. Karzai.
''Six years ago it was a very good bank, but in 2010 it was going downhill, but the leadership of the central bank was still giving it good reports, '' Mr. Ludin said.
Mr. Ludin was even more combative at a news conference last month convened to lay out the results of a supposed investigation ordered by President Karzai, although the gist of the report was to absolve most of the parties of any blame -- other than Mr. Fitrat and other minor figures.
''It is clear the whole problem was the Central Bank of Afghanistan,'' Mr. Ludin said. ''The Central Bank of Afghanistan knew everything that was going on in Kabul Bank.'' Mr. Fitrat ''is the root of the problem, and he knew everything.''
Soon after, officials in the attorney general's office said that charges had been brought against Mr. Fitrat. An official in the attorney general's office on Monday confirmed that. ''He was involved in all these things going on in Kabul Bank and we do have a case against him,'' said an official in the attorney general's office, who did not want to be named. He said charges were also brought against one other central bank official.
The departure of Mr. Fitrat will almost certainly further delay the central bank's effort to find a way to meet the International Monetary Fund's demands and recoup some of the money from Kabul bank's borrowers.
Rather than focusing on the fund's demand that the Kabul Bank's receiver secure guarantees that the bad loans will be repaid and press ahead on forensic audits of other potentially fragile banks as well as replenish the central bank's coffers -- it paid at least $500 million to keep Kabul Bank afloat when there was a run on deposits last summer -- the central bank's work on the Kabul Bank will wait until a new governor is selected. That could mean months more before there is a working I.M.F. program and therefore the loss of tens of millions of dollars more in aid.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Abdul Qadeer Fitrat, the governor of Afghanistan's Central Bank, left for the United States and then said he had resigned. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AHMAD MASOOD/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); SCANDALS (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TALIBAN (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); LITIGATION (75%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); LAWYERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); AL-QAEDA (63%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1055 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Q. and A. with Aleksei L. Kudrin

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from an interview conducted last week by The Times's Moscow bureau chief, Ellen Barry, with Aleksei L. Kudrin, the finance minister of Russia. Mr. Kudrin is considered the third most powerful figure in the Kremlin, after Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin and President Dmitri A. Medvedev, and is a close ally of Mr. Putin.
Q: I understand that you were originally offered the post of dean of the economics department at St. Petersburg State University, but that you preferred to head the liberal arts department. Why? 
A: I have known this program for many years, as program for liberal arts within the philological department. ...I liked the standard when I got acquainted with it for the first time. It's a well-known standard, liberal arts and science, which is used in the U.S. I think it is the right kind of education, which assumes general creative education, the development of a creative student, and also a well-rounded education. A person should get command of art history and know the natural disciplines as well.
Q: Recently you have spoken out quite forcefully about the Russian political system, something we rarely heard you do in the past. Why have you chosen this time to begin addressing these questions?
A: The end of the crisis creates new opportunity and challenges in Russia. We have to revise many things, economic policy in particular. We shouldn't live with such dependence on oil. We have to more strictly implement certain rules, rules by which both the government and businesses exist. And I think if we don't do this, Russia won't have a great chance to become one of the leading countries. But in order to achieve this, greater political transparency is needed -- a more transparent system of elections. I have spoken about that, these things are connected. In order to create a competitive country with a very interesting economic policy, one should have a good political system and transparent elections.
Q: Do you feel that we have come to a decision point ahead of the presidential elections?
A: We are standing in front of it. There is always a choice.
Q: Why did you refuse the position as leader of Right Cause?
A: First of all, probably the formulation of your question is not very exact. In order to refuse, one has to make a decision to create a party. It's a matter of creating a new party -- a big new party. In this case one has to have a great number of allies, brothers-in-arms. It's a serious process. In this case, I think a liberal party should be created. I work at the government now and do much so that reforms would be carried out. And I think I will keep working her.
Q: If we accept that there is a desire to broaden the competition in government, to create a new party -- if this party created by the Kremlin itself, can it be real competition?
A: Of course, if a party is created no one can say for sure whether it will be popular. It depends on its leaders, this program, and on people's expectations. It's a very complicated process, and it may not always end up with victory, not in all cases... . I think that a liberal party would be very useful. Now, in Russia, this political spectrum is poorly represented in the party system and absolutely not represented in the Parliament. I think it is a great drawback of our political system. But I also see that united Russia is playing a very serious role which it has been performing until now. A certain balance is needed. A liberal party is lacking in this balance.
Q: Everyone talks about who will be the next president, but there is little public discussion about what policies will be followed after the election. Are those conversations going on behind the scenes?
A: Very acute problems have arisen in the economy. Not everybody has understood this completely. In the next 10 years Russia will not have an increase in oil production. In principle, oil production will not increase. It is because the old oil fields will end their existence. They will cease to exist, and though new ones will be opened, they will have a hard task to compensate for the volume of production at the old fields. With very big investments into the oil industry in future years, especially in eastern Siberia, we will be able to compensate for the completion of production and other oil fields. This is why growth in oil production will stop for the next 10 years. The great part of the economy, about 17 percent, will not grow. I mean 17 percent of G.D.P. In order for Russian economy to grow at 6 or more percent, it is necessary for all the rest of the economy to grow even faster. And in order for it to grow faster very understandable rules are needed. Understandable institutions. A good judicial system, so that everyone will be sure in his investments, in fair arbitration and courts, in very efficient work of the government and its administration of all federal bodies and its authority. We won't be able to grow the economy by simply increasing oil production anymore. More complicated work is ahead of us. In essence, it will be diversification of economy. This has already become inevitable, because the oil industries won't grow and other industries will. Communication, transport, information communications, main branches of industry will grow. But not oil. Of course, we will get away from our dependence on oil. It will be very difficult -- it is necessary to create good rules of the game, and both Putin and Medvedev understand this.
Q: Is there consensus between them on this?
A: They understand it a little bit differently. As a whole, yes, they understand it. Probably they are ready -- I think they are ready for this work. I know this from our discussions. This is why, in principle, Russia will improve its investment climate and carry out reforms under either leader.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); POLITICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); HISTORY (72%); ART HISTORY (67%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1056 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Long-Serving Finance Minister Calls for Reforms to Bolster Russia's Power

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- It has been an unusual season for Aleksei L. Kudrin, Russia's finance minister, one of Moscow's quietest and most powerful men.
Several times in recent months, Mr. Kudrin -- a longtime ally of Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin -- has called for deep domestic changes, arguing that Russia will slip out of the ranks of the world's leading nations unless it allows for fair competition in politics and business.
In a period of political uncertainty, Mr. Kudrin's complaints are impossible to ignore.
This is partly because, having already outlasted five prime ministers during his 11-year tenure, he will almost certainly remain in place next spring no matter who is president -- presumably either Mr. Putin or the incumbent, Dmitri A. Medvedev. 
But it is also because he speaks for an important group: well-placed Russian elites who are advocating for political change from within the system.
Mr. Kudrin, 50, gave an interview to The New York Times ahead of his election as dean of the faculty of Liberal Arts and Sciences at St. Petersburg State University, a dual degree program with Bard College in New York. He laid out an argument grounded in practicalities. Oil production is going to level off for the next 10 years, so any further economic growth will have to come from other sectors, he said.
''Very clear rules are needed, and very understandable institutions -- a very good judicial system, so that everybody will feel confident in his investments, in fair arbitration, in courts and in very efficient work of the government and federal bodies under its authority,'' he said. ''Of course, we will get away from our dependence on oil. It will be very difficult -- it is necessary to create good rules of the game, and both Putin and Medvedev understand it.''
''They understand it a little bit differently,'' he added. ''As a whole, yes, they understand it. Probably they are ready -- I think they are ready for this work. I know this from our discussions. This is why, in principle, Russia will improve its investment climate and carry out reforms under either leader.''
The Russian government is acutely aware of this line of reasoning, and on Saturday relaunched a party, Right Cause, which is meant to capture the aspirations of liberals and small businessmen disenchanted with United Russia, the political party Mr. Putin leads. Its new leader is Mikhail D. Prokhorov, the Kremlin-friendly billionaire owner of the New Jersey Nets basketball team, who vowed to build a two-party political system. He was careful not to openly criticize Mr. Putin.
Mr. Kudrin had already refused the position, to the evident frustration of President Medvedev. He explained last week that the new party needed to be built from the ground up, and that his government work would not allow for such an effort.
But he said that he wholeheartedly supported the creation of a strong liberal party, and that the decision by no means foreclosed his role as an advocate of its causes. ''I will always facilitate the development of the political system toward greater transparency and strengthening of those who defend rightist views,'' he said. ''Yes, of course I will facilitate this.''
Vladimir V. Pozner, who hosts a political talk show on Channel One, said he believed Mr. Kudrin had made a calculated decision to step up his criticism during a pivotal period in Russian politics. ''He is a major figure in the government setup of the Russian Federation, and he knows very well that when he says something it's not just hot air,'' Mr. Pozner said. ''Who is it aimed at? I think it's aimed at Putin.''
''He knows that he has a very strong position -- he is not opposition, in any political sense,'' Mr. Pozner said. Political change, he added, ''has to come from on top. And there is a strong liberal element that has some hold on power.''
Mr. Kudrin's importance is anchored in history. In 1996, he and Anatoly B. Chubais helped bring Mr. Putin to Moscow. Mr. Kudrin, then deputy chief of the presidential administration, recommended Mr. Putin as his replacement the next year, setting the stage for his rise through Russia's political firmament.
As Mr. Putin's finance minister, Mr. Kudrin made it his mission to steer oil revenues into a stabilization fund, and he made influential enemies. He clashed with hard-liners behind the scenes, but remained quiet, at least in public, as Mr. Putin consolidated control over Russia's political system. Russia's weathering of the 2008 financial crisis vindicated Mr. Kudrin's position, leaving him more secure than ever.
After that his criticism slowly sharpened. This reached its clearest point in February when, during a speech at the Krasnoyarsk Economic Forum, he said Russia would not achieve its economic goals without introducing real political competition. He repeated that thesis in April remarks to the State Duma.
Mr. Kudrin said the shift in his public language reflected ''some stages of my personal development.'' He spoke with pride of his accomplishments in imposing transparency on the federal budget, and said the time had come to extend that effort to the whole government.
Mr. Kudrin is an ardent supporter of liberal arts education, which runs against the grain in a country whose schools encourage early specialization. Since 2003, he has served as a trustee of the Smolny Institute, an unusual dual degree program with Bard.
The program's future looked murky a few years ago, when the university's new rector, Nikolai M. Kropachev, set about a strict review of independent programs within the university. Mr. Kudrin argued for transforming the Smolny Institute into something more prominent -- Russia's first free-standing department of liberal arts and sciences -- and offered to step in as dean, a position that officials say will require him to spend about a day a month on its campus.
''A new rector came in and he decided to review this program,'' Mr. Kudrin said. ''This worried many people. They thought that the rector's attitude toward the program was somewhat cool. But today everything is O.K.''
''Probably my attention to this department also allowed him to be more attentive,'' he said.
Susan H. Gillespie, director of the Institute for International Liberal Education at Bard, said she had been struck by Mr. Kudrin's immersion in the details of teaching and curriculum.
''In the United States, I cannot imagine any of our public figures doing this,'' Ms. Gillespie said. ''It's improbable. Imagine Timothy Geithner stepping in to save a Russian-American exchange program and putting his name on the line. I don't see it happening.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Aleksei L. Kudrin, who has had an 11-year tenure as the Russian minister of finance, in his office in Moscow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BASKETBALL (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); DMITRY MEDVEDEV (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (59%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1057 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Britain and China Set $2.2 Billion in Deals and a Goal of Doubling Trade by 2015

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER; Nicola Clark contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
LONDON -- China and Britain agreed Monday on $:1.4 billion worth of trade deals as part of a European tour by the Chinese prime minister, Wen Jiabao.
In announcing the deals, worth about $2.2 billion, the British prime minister, David Cameron, restated the goal of doubling trade between the countries to $100 billion by 2015. Mr. Wen said that he was ''confident'' of meeting that goal.
''The purpose of my visit is to promote communication, cooperation and development,'' Mr. Wen said at a news conference in London. Mr. Cameron said China presented a ''huge opportunity'' for British companies. 
Mr. Wen was more than half through a four-day European tour. He had already visited Hungary and was to travel to Germany late Monday.
After a meeting with the Hungarian prime minister, Viktor Orban, over the weekend, Mr. Wen said that China had ''total trust in Europe's economic development'' and would ''consistently support Europe and the euro.''
In Britain, Mr. Cameron's government is trying to strengthen trade relations with the faster-growing China. The goal is to increase exports and bolster British manufacturing to speed an economic recovery that recently has started to slow.
British exports to China have grown 20 percent since last November, when Mr. Cameron visited Beijing with a business delegation. China has become the third-largest source of British imports, after Germany and the United States, according to the Office for National Statistics.
Britain and China agreed Monday to increase infrastructure investments in both countries and grant British businesses better access to China's civil engineering and research markets. A ban on British poultry exports to China, which was imposed as a result of avian flu cases in 2007, was lifted, and Britain is to sell more pigs and their meat to China.
Diageo, the British spirits company, said Monday that Chinese regulators had approved its acquisition of an additional 4 percent stake in the liquor maker Sichuan Chengdu Quanxing, giving Diageo control.
Other deals announced after the talks included an agreement between Weatherly International, a British mining company, and the East China Mineral Exploration and Development Bureau to cooperate on the development of a lead zinc mine in Namibia. The BG Group, the British natural gas company, also signed a deal with Bank of China to receive as much as $1.5 billion in financing.
During the news conference, Mr. Wen dodged questions about China's human rights record. ''On human rights, China and the U.K. should respect each other, respect the facts, treat each other as equals, engage in more cooperation than finger-pointing and resolve our differences through dialogue,'' he said.
On the same issue, Mr. Cameron merely repeated a statement from his last visit to China, saying, ''We do believe the best guarantor of prosperity and stability is for economic and political progress to go in step together.''
Mr. Wen was to meet Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany in Berlin on Monday. China and Germany are expected to announce 30 cooperation and trade agreements on Tuesday, the German foreign ministry said.
As part of those talks, officials were to discuss a possible order for superjumbo jets that has caused controversy. China is pushing the European Union to abandon plans to regulate the greenhouse gas emissions of airlines, including foreign-owned ones, flying to and from the 27-country bloc. China warned this month that it could block its airlines from buying new planes built by Airbus, which is based in France, if Brussels proceeded with the plans.
The issue came to a head at the Paris Air Show last week, when Chinese officials sought to derail an order for 10 Airbus A380 superjumbo jets by Hong Kong Airlines, a domestic airline that operates between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland. Airbus had planned to announce the $3.8 billion contract, which had already been signed by the airline, at the show, but Beijing declined to give final approval, people with knowledge of the talks said.
Formal approval of the deal was expected to be granted eventually, said these people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the situation was politically fragile. They said, however, that further Chinese orders of Airbus jets had been delayed, including a large one that Airbus had hoped to announce while Mr. Wen was in Germany. It was unclear whether that order would now be modified or postponed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: China's prime minister, Wen Jiabao, pointing, and his British counterpart, David Cameron, on Monday in London, where both endorsed a goal of doubling their trade to $100 billion by 2015. (POOL PHOTO BY ANDY RAIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (74%); POULTRY (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LIVESTOCK EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); DISTILLERIES (71%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); APPROVALS (66%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (66%); MINES & MINING (65%); STATISTICS (65%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (64%); ENGINEERING (63%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (63%); LEAD & ZINC MINING (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); INFLUENZA (50%)

COMPANY: DIAGEO PLC (53%); BG GROUP PLC (52%); WEATHERLY INTERNATIONAL PLC (52%); BANK OF CHINA LTD (51%)

TICKER: DGE (PAR) (53%); DGE (LSE) (53%); DEO (NYSE) (53%); BG (LSE) (52%); WTI (LSE) (52%); 3988 (HKSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (53%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (53%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (53%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (92%); DAVID CAMERON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%); HUNGARY (92%); NAMIBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1058 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Job Cuts Loom If Slump Persists

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and RICHARD BEALES

 BODY:
Wall Street is again talking of impending job cuts. With trading revenue falling, the pressure is growing for investment banks to lay off employees. Executives are still debating whether the current slump is a blip. But nobody wants to slash ranks right before a turnaround, so the knives may not come out for a few months.
Firms have jumped the gun before. Morgan Stanley scaled back its fixed-income operations after the 2008 crisis, leaving an already-damaged franchise unprepared for the bailout-fueled recovery the next year. It has since hired 400 or so people in interest rates and other more liquid markets, but has not yet made much progress toward its goal of increasing revenue by about a third. 
Merrill Lynch also hit the panic button in 2008, perhaps more understandably given its huge losses at the time. But Thomas K. Montag, who had just been hired from Goldman Sachs to run trading, extended the cull to equities desks. The firm ended up trying to rehire many of the same people months later, with varying success.
That was not the first time Merrill pulled the trigger too early. A decade ago, E. Stanley O'Neal, then chief executive-in-waiting, cut thousands of workers soon after the Sept. 11 attacks. At the time the company was still trying to recover from its previous mass firing after the Russian and Long-Term Capital Management crisis in 1998.
No firm wants to repeat such mistakes. And many market participants think fixed-income trading should recover. Analysts at Nomura, for instance, estimate that it should grow by an average of 7 percent a year from here. The question is when that gets going. The European sovereign debt crisis, the federal debt ceiling impasse and concerns about the pace of economic recovery are taking their toll on markets.
Deutsche Bank estimates that trading volumes are down 20 to 40 percent this quarter. That will bring a few job reductions, with other cuts coming from noncompensation expenses. But if the trading business hasn't rebounded by September, Wall Street's elevators will be full of former employees with cardboard boxes heading down and out for good.
Tepco's Familiar Mess
Tokyo Electric Power is looking like an undead relative of America's housing zombies. Shareholders of the Japanese utility, scheduled to hold its annual meeting on Tuesday in Tokyo, have seen the value of their holdings tumble 85 percent since the March earthquake. The American housing crisis eviscerated the stock of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in a similar way. As with those companies, it is questionable whether Tepco's next chapter involves public shareholders at all.
Tepco's mess echoes that of Fannie and Freddie in significant ways. The utility -- valued at 3.4 trillion yen ($42 billion) in early March, but now worth less than a sixth of that -- is a central part of the industrial infrastructure underpinning Japan's economy. The two American mortgage giants increased, and still support, America's huge housing sector, although their shares, once worth much more than $100 billion combined, are now essentially worthless.
Tepco and the United States government-sponsored enterprises dominated their markets, were overseen by feckless regulators and became complacent before disaster struck. They operated with inadequate risk management and capital regimes. Both were also widely held by retail investors as stocks that seemed safe.
The stories also, of course, diverge. The collapse in Fannie and Freddie's share prices culminated in an open-ended government rescue that ensured the companies' creditors were fully protected. With Tepco, the Japanese government has said it will help with the trillions of yen the company will pay in compensation, but that assistance looks likely to be capped. Bankruptcy is not off the table. Nor is the idea of leaning on banks to write off loans. So Tepco's credit is under a giant cloud as well: the cost of insuring against default implies it is riskier to lend to the once unassailable Tepco than to Pakistan.
The fate of the company's shareholders is probably in the hands of Japan's lawmakers. Nearly three years on, their counterparts in the Congress cannot figure out how to restructure Fannie and Freddie. Though unsustainable in their current form, they are seen as too central to a sluggish economy to risk radical change. It is not hard to imagine a zombified Tepco roaming in similar fashion, subsisting on what is left of its shareholder value. ANTONY CURRIE
and RICHARD BEALES
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: E. Stanley O'Neal of Merrill Lynch cut thousands of jobs after the 9/11 attacks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT LAFORET/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (70%); EURO CRISIS (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); DEBT CEILING (63%); NATIONAL DEBT (63%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (63%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (80%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (80%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (59%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); TOKYO ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%); 9501 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (80%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (80%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (80%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (59%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: STAN O'NEAL (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1059 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Debt Divide Remains As President Steps In

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The White House and Congressional Republicans remained deeply divided on Monday over whether a budget-cutting deal tied to a debt limit increase should contain new federal revenues.
As President Obama welcomed Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, to the White House for separate budget negotiations, his spokesman, Jay Carney, said Republicans must be willing to consider tax changes, including the elimination of ''loopholes'' that benefit corporations.
''It's the only way to get it done if you want to do it right and you want to do it in a way that is fair and balanced and ensures that the economy continues to grow and continues to create jobs,'' Mr. Carney told reporters. 
But even before Mr. McConnell met with the president, he dug in deeply against proposals for new tax revenue, suggesting that the deal should be struck mainly by cutting spending. New taxes, he said, would harm the economy.
''My message to the president is simple,'' Mr. McConnell said in a speech on the Senate floor. ''It's time for Washington to focus on fixing itself. It's time Washington take the hit, not the taxpayers.'' The two men later met for an hour to discuss the budget.
The talks Monday marked the beginning of Mr. Obama's intervention in bargaining aimed at getting a deficit reduction deal that would lead to Congressional approval of an increase in the debt ceiling, which is now $14.3 trillion. The discussions moved to the White House after Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the No. 2 House Republican, pulled out last week from talks being led by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., citing Democratic insistence on raising taxes.
The high-level meetings on Monday were seen as a ''regrouping phase,'' which an administration official said was likely to set the stage for yet another round of gritty negotiations between the White House and Congressional leaders before Aug. 2, when federal borrowing authority will expire.
After his own meeting with the president, Mr. Reid called on Republicans to ''put the economy ahead of politics.''
''Neither party should confront this crisis alone,'' he said. ''And no one will be successful unless we confront it together.''
As the debt talks resumed at the White House, Senator Bernard Sanders, the Vermont independent, took the floor to urge the president to resist Republican pressure to wring most of the savings out of federal programs rather than impose any new taxes on the nation's most affluent.
''It is time for the president to stand with the millions who have lost their jobs, homes, and life savings, instead of the millionaires, who in many cases, have never had it so good,'' he said.
Officials said they remained optimistic that a significant deal could still be reached, asserting that a certain amount of partisan maneuvering was to be expected. They noted that the round of talks steered by Mr. Biden had brought progress toward an agreement on spending and items that did not generate tax revenue, including Pentagon budget cuts and increased pension contributions from federal workers.
One Republican adviser said the party's approach would be not to rehash differences in the Democratic and Republican proposals but to try to settle on a package that could attract majority support in the House and Senate and resolve the debt limit fight. For the White House, in the wake of Mr. Cantor's walkout, one imponderable is whether House leaders can corral enough votes for a plan that balances spending cuts with some tax-related changes. ''There's genuine confusion about the Republican bottom line,'' said the administration official.
Democrats said that while the president remained open to a sweeping deal that produces something in the neighborhood of $4 trillion in savings over the next decade, Republicans would have to relent on their opposition to new tax revenues to achieve that agreement.
They said Mr. McConnell, who has raised the prospect of a short-term increase in the debt limit if the two sides cannot agree, appeared to be banking on Democratic reluctance to take two votes on a debt limit increase before the 2012 elections to force them to agree to savings from cuts in Medicare and Medicaid without new revenue.
Democrats say they intend to resist any major changes in the popular entitlement programs without some significant Republican concessions on taxes and new revenue. They also intend to try to keep the heat on Republicans by emphasizing their efforts to protect tax breaks for special interests, as Mr. Carney did Monday at the White House.
''On the issue of revenues,'' he asked, ''do we perpetuate a system that allows for subsidies in revenues for oil and gas, for example, or owners of corporate private jets, and then call for cuts in things like food safety or weather services, things that the federal government really does need to do?''
Mr. McConnell showed little willingness to budge.
''Let's move past tax hikes, talk about what's actually possible,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Mitch McConnell.
 Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICS (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); DISMISSALS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); LAYOFFS (64%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (90%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); HARRY REID (78%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); BERNIE SANDERS (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1060 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: In Mideast Finance, Women Are Breaking Down Barriers

BYLINE: By CHRIS V. NICHOLSON

 BODY:
Hoda Abou-Jamra still remembers the meeting when potential investors for her private equity fund thought she was the secretary.
''I would ask a question, and they would answer to the man next to me. I would answer their question, and they would look at him,'' she said, laughing. ''I didn't let it bother me. I just stood up straighter and talked louder.''
Women deal makers, financiers and entrepreneurs are a rare breed in the Middle East. As a founding partner of a $40 million health care fund in Dubai, Ms. Abou-Jamra operates in a male-dominated industry globally and a male-dominated work force locally. 
In private equity, women account for roughly 9 percent of the senior management positions worldwide, with the share varying from 9.1 percent in Europe to 8.7 percent in the United States, according to a study this year by the industry research firm Preqin. The gender imbalance is even more extreme in the Middle East, market participants say. While few statistics are available on the region's nascent industry, only 25 percent of women enter the job market at all, compared with nearly 60 percent in the United States.
Ms. Abou-Jamra and other women financial professionals in the Middle East are trying improve the mix. It is a slow process, but they are making headway by creating their own investment vehicles, forging ties with influential players, and generally raising awareness.
''For the gulf states, in the last decade, women have become a lot more entrepreneurial,'' said Dina Kawar, the ambassador to France from Jordan, where women account for about 13 percent of all private-sector workers.
Like Ms. Abou-Jamra, Maha Al-Ghunaim found a place at the top by creating a new financial firm, rather than working inside an existing one. At the investment arm of Kuwait's sovereign wealth fund, Mrs. Al-Ghunaim steadily rose through the ranks, reaching the position an assistant general manager. But competition was intense, and she felt her best opportunity for advancement was elsewhere.
''When you are climbing the ladder, you have to balance between speed and safety,'' Mrs. Al-Ghunaim said.
So 13 years ago she founded Global Investment House, a Kuwait-based financial firm that began as a brokerage firm and investment bank. She has since expanded into private equity, with four funds overseeing about $1.5 billion.
The barriers for women are both cultural and structural.
''The guys have so much testosterone, I've had to learn to be more aggressive to be heard,'' Ms. Abou-Jamra said. ''I've found that unless I participate in boys' club activities, I'm put aside. You have to be one of the boys to really fit.''
But some Mideast countries ban women from driving or mixing in public spaces with the opposite sex. Strict dress codes are also enforced in places like Saudi Arabia and Iran.
''There are buildings where I walk in, and I'm the only woman there,'' said Ms. Abou-Jamra. ''Even the secretaries are male.''
Such restrictions made it difficult for Muna AbuSulayman, an entrepreneur and former television personality, to develop her latest ventures, a fashion line and a Facebook application for new parents. Simply registering the businesses with the government took a year, instead of the usual three days, she said.
''Each time, they would ask for something else, another piece of information, but they wouldn't ask for all of it at the same time,'' she said.
One item that held up the process: an address. The country's law forbids people from using their home for commercial purposes. Ms. AbuSulayman could not use her father's office either, since it was not licensed to have women employees under Saudi Arabia's gender segregation rules. She obtained a business address through a brother.
It can be difficult to find capital, too.
Despite the region's wealth and deep-pocketed investors, women are often reliant on conservative lenders, which are reluctant to give loans to small, women-led firms. When Ms. AbuSulayman and a male counterpart submitted similar applications to the same Saudi Arabian bank, she received a loan roughly a third of the size of the man.
''Applying for a loan, a woman will not get as much as a man,'' she said. ''My sister decided to sell her catering business when she could not raise the money she needed to expand it.''
Ms. Abou-Jamra went outside of the Mideast to find money for her firm. After meeting with four international private equity firms, she won the backing of the TVM Capital, a German private equity firm focused on the life sciences, to start a health care fund. She has since raised capital from investors like the World Bank's private-sector arm, the International Finance Corporation, and the health care unit of General Electric.
Fund-raising in the Middle East was a central topic at a recent conference in Paris. The one-day event, attended by dozens of business people, diplomats and policy analysts, covered how mentorships and social media could play a transformative role in helping women financiers succeed in the region.
''As a woman in the Middle East, as an Arab woman, I found some men were very supportive,'' Ms. Abou-Jamra said. ''They helped me to not give up.''
Anu Bhardwaj, organizer of the conference, said ''like-minded people invest in one another.''
Ms. Bhardwaj's efforts are tied to a wider campaign by the Women's Business Forum. Backed by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Jordan and the United States, the group is trying to educate women entrepreneurs and executives across the globe.
The group wants to tap into the vast resources of the region's wealthy women. In the Middle East, women are thought to control billions.
''Widows and divorcees have that kind of money,'' Ms. Bhardwaj said, ''and they don't spend it all on eye shadow.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hoda Abou-Jamra is the founding partner of a $40 million private equity health care fund that is based in Dubai. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEINZ S. TESAREK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); MEN (90%); WOMEN (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); STATISTICS (69%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (61%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%); GLOBAL INVESTMENT HOUSE KSCC (51%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (53%); GLOBAL (KUW) (51%); GLOB (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: MAHA AL-GHUNAIM (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); KUWAIT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); JORDAN (57%); GULF STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1061 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Even Without Teacher Layoffs, City Schools Will Still Feel Pain

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS and JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
New York's $66 billion budget, which the City Council is set to approve on Tuesday, averted the laying off of thousands of teachers that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had said would be necessary. But the plan does not spare the schools from cuts.
The schools chancellor, Dennis M. Walcott, told principals on Monday that individual school budgets would decline by an average of 2.4 percent, forcing tough choices about what -- or whom -- they can do without. 
Parent coordinators at high schools could be let go, after-school programs could end and teaching positions could be purged, prompting schools to consolidate classes and eliminate elective courses. The city does not plan to replace an estimated 2,600 teachers who are expected to retire or resign this summer, so one result is inevitable: Class sizes will increase.
''It's not going to be easy,'' said Ernest A. Logan, the president of the principals' union.
Some schools will feel the impact more than others. The cuts range from one half of 1 percent to 3.3 percent, according to a spokeswoman for the city's Education Department.
Schools generally receive money on the basis of enrollment, with additional funds provided for students who receive special education services or are not proficient in English, math or reading.
Several other city agencies are also preparing for cuts. City officials said that under the budget agreement, which the mayor and the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, negotiated last week, more than 1,000 workers at the Administration for Children's Services, the Health and Hospitals Corporation, the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, the Department of Parks and Recreation and the Department of Transportation would be let go.
''There is no question there is going to be some layoffs,'' Mr. Bloomberg said Monday. Warning that next year's budget would very likely be more difficult, he added that ''nobody should think we're out of the woods on teachers or anything else.''
''I'm just thankful we could keep those who want to work working,'' he continued.
The final budget agreement came together at the end of an intense week of negotiations, after the Bloomberg administration and the Council each pledged to contribute more money to the schools in exchange for certain concessions from the United Federation of Teachers.
To avert the first layoffs of teachers since the financial crises of the 1970s, the union agreed to suspend sabbaticals for a year and to allow teachers without a permanent assignment to work as substitutes in the classroom, possibly in a different school every week, for savings that add up to $60 million.
City officials said the rest of the money came from additional cuts at the Education Department of about $70 million and revised estimates of how much would be saved through attrition, to roughly $180 million. That will leave school budgets about $178 million smaller than last year's -- a cut about half the size of the reduction schools faced last year, which averaged 4.2 percent below the budget of the previous year.
An additional 13.5 percent will be cut from the Education Department's central and field offices, affecting administrators, instructional specialists and support staff.
Mr. Bloomberg had called for laying off 4,100 teachers in the proposed budget he released last month. The budget set for approval calls for the Council to use nearly $400 million of its discretionary funds to restore other cuts proposed by the mayor, including the closing of 20 fire companies.
The size of the city's work force has fallen to 296,000 from 311,000 during Mr. Bloomberg's nine years in office and additional reductions are expected as workers who leave are not replaced.
Marc La Vorgna, a spokesman for Mr. Bloomberg, said there was still time to avert the layoffs that remained on the table if union leaders agreed to further concessions.
In the schools, principals struggled to absorb news of their budget cuts as they prepared for graduation ceremonies and the last day of classes on Tuesday.
Mr. Logan, of the principals' union, said one of the most puzzling elements was a change to the formula used to calculate Title I financing for schools serving poor students or neighborhoods. In the current and the previous school year, the formula covered schools where 40 percent of the students qualified for free and reduced-price lunch. In September, after a drop in federal financing, only schools where 60 percent of the students receive free lunch will be eligible.
This fall, the school system's enrollment is projected to increase by roughly 11,800 students, or just over 1 percent. Still, the department has ordered schools to keep half of the money allotted for the new students in reserve, in case the projections do not materialize.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); LAYOFFS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); CITIES (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (72%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (53%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); CHILD WELFARE (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1062 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
ECONOMIC CRISIS IN YEMEN
FURTHER THREATENS STABILITY
While Yemen's political crisis stagnates -- a popular uprising has stalled and a wounded president has not been seen publicly for weeks -- economic troubles including the breakdown of public services, fuel shortages and rising prices for food and water could create a humanitarian crisis. PAGE A10
FRENCH SEE OPEN RACE 
With the shocking fall of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who was arrested on charges of sexual assaulting a hotel housekeeper, France's Socialist Party is trying to pick a presidential candidate from an uninspiring set of choices. PAGE A8
AFGHAN BANKER QUITS IN FEAR
Citing fear of reprisals and political interference in his investigation of the largest financial scandal in the country, the governor of Afghanistan's Central Bank announced his resignation while in the United States, saying that he no longer felt safe in Afghanistan. The scandal involved the nation's largest private bank and politically connected shareholders. Page A6
National
SUPREME COURT REJECTS
CAMPAIGN FINANCE LAW
In its first campaign-finance decision since its 5-to-4 ruling in the Citizens United case last year, the Supreme Court struck down an Arizona law that provided escalating matching funds to candidates who accept public financing, saying the law violated the First Amendment rights of candidates. PAGE A15
New York
NO TEACHER LAYOFFS,
BUT SCHOOLS FACE CUTS
New York City's $66 billion budget, which the Council is set to formally approve, averted the layoff of thousands of teachers that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said last month would be necessary, but it does not spare the schools from cuts. Rather, Chancellor Dennis M. Walcott told principals that individual school budgets would decline by an average of 2.4 percent. PAGE A18
FIGHTING FOR PROGRESS
Advocates say that immigrants and gay people are among the last still fighting for basic civil rights and that progress for one will help the other. PAGE A20
Business
CHINA'S AUDITOR WARNS
OF RISKS OF LOCAL DEBT
The head of China's national audit office warned that the country was facing growing risks because of a sharp rise in local government debt and poor controls over borrowing by investment companies set up by municipalities, provinces and other bodies. The release of the report comes as worries are growing that China's booming economy is overheating. PAGE B1
WOMEN IN MIDEAST FINANCE
Female deal makers, financiers and entrepreneurs are a rare breed in the Middle East, where they often face barriers in male-dominated companies. Some successful women have overcome this by creating their own investment vehicles. PAGE B9
Arts
A FAREWELL (FOR NOW)
TO OLD SELVES
Beyonce has made a career of impeccability, even as she's swum in pop waters that no longer demand such a thing. But no longer is she interested in taking the temperature of the room. This week Beyonce releases ''4'' (Columbia), her fourth solo album, and one that all but relinquishes her claim to the pop here and now, writes Jon Caramanica. PAGE C1
TURNING DESIGN ON ITS SIDE
Nicknamed the Horizontal Skyscraper, Steven Holl's Vanke Center in Shenzhen, China, is a surreal hybrid -- part building, part landscape, part infrastructure. It is a testament to how architects are free to pursue original concepts in modern China. Nicolai Ouroussoff, Architecture Review. PAGE C1
Sports
LOS ANGELES DODGERS
FILE FOR BANKRUPTCY
The Los Angeles Dodgers filed for bankruptcy in a Delaware court, a move that is expected to give a quick jolt of cash to the troubled team but also to ratchet up the standoff between the owner, Frank McCourt, and Bud Selig, Major League Baseball's commissioner. PAGE B11
PLAYING ON FOOTBALL'S FRINGE
In the Indoor Football League, the most minor of minor leagues, crowds are tiny and paychecks are tinier, and success on Saturday night is no guarantee of employment on Monday morning. PAGE B11
Science
RESEARCH SAYS HUMAN GENE
MAY SENSE MAGNETIC FIELD
A researcher studying how monarch butterflies navigate has picked up a strong hint that people may be able to sense the earth's magnetic field and use it for orienting themselves. PAGE D5
A MATH MUSEUM'S VARIABLES
Glen Whitney has raised $22 million in his quest to create the Museum of Mathematics, which he hopes will showcase the beauty of geometry, numbers and abstract ideas. The museum is scheduled to open in Manhattan in 2012. PAGE D1
OP-ED
David Brooks PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); SCANDALS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); MEN (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (71%); ARRESTS (71%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); AUDITS (66%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (56%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (73%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) YEMEN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011



1063 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: British Inflation: A Teachable Moment

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: We are not the 70s.

 BODY:
Adam Posen gave a talk yesterday (pdf) about British monetary policy that drives home a point I've been meaning to make; namely, that what's happening in Britain on the monetary front right now is very much a teachable moment for monetary policy more generally. The Bank of England faces the same kind conflict between what it should be doing and what it's under pressure to do that faces the Fed, but in starker form. And if the BoE holds its ground, we should soon have a clear demonstration that one side is right and the other is wrong. 
The story so far: Britain is currently experiencing relatively high headline inflation, more than 4 percent over the previous year. And so there are demands that the BoE tighten. Yet the bulk of the rise in inflation clearly represents temporary or one-time factors: a rise in value-added taxes as temporary breaks introduced during the recession expired, commodity prices, and the once-off effects of the fall in the value of the pound against the euro.
Nonetheless, the inflation hawks demand a rate rise, arguing that despite the still very depressed state of the economy, inflation must be nipped in the bud or it will turn into stagflation, 70s-style.
What Posen points out is that the case for preemptive monetary tightening to head off stagflation is entirely based on the 70s experience; there have been no other similar episodes in history. before or since. And the situation in Britain today bears little resemblance to the situation preceding any modern takeoff in inflation. Here's unit labor costs in the quarters preceding several modern British inflation episodes, and this time around:
So it really does not look as if there's much risk that this blip in inflation will turn permanent. And on the other hand, there's every risk that a premature tightening will ensure that Britain faces a lost decade or more.
All the same issues apply in the United States, although in less extreme form: we didn't have the VAT increase, but we did have the commodity shock, and the depreciation of the dollar has had some effect, although probably not as much as the depreciation of the pound.
What we can hope for is that the BoE stays the course; and when inflation in the UK drops sharply, as it almost surely will, that will be an object lesson in the folly of always making policy as if it were 1979.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BRITISH POUND (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (74%); EURO (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); VALUE ADDED TAX (68%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1064 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: June 28, 1919 | Germany Signs Treaty of Versailles

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On June 28, 1919, Germany signed the Treaty of Versailles, officially ending its involvement in World War I and imposing harsh penalties and restrictions that many historians believe contributed to the rise of Hitler.

 BODY:
On June 28, 1919, Germany signed the Treaty of Versailles, officially ending its involvement in World War I. The treaty subjected Germany to a number of harsh penalties and restrictions that many historians believe contributed to the rise of Adolf Hitler.
Germany and the Allied Powers had signed an armistice on Nov. 11, 1918. Two months later, the Allied Powers met at the Paris Peace Conference to begin what became a four-month process of drafting the terms of Germany's surrender.
France, which had been invaded by Germany four times since 1814, sought to impose strict penalties on its neighbor to ensure its own safety. Conversely, President Woodrow Wilson of the United States pushed for his "Fourteen Points," a collection of conditions intended to prevent the outbreak of war. 
The final treaty was completed in May 1919. The most contentious part of the treaty was Article 231, known as the "war guilt clause," which forced Germany to accept all financial and moral responsibility for the war. Germany was given two choices: sign the treaty as is, or resume fighting.
The New York Times article about the signing contrasted it with the Franco-German peace session, held in the same hall, "where the Germans humbled the French so ignominiously forty-eight years ago." The Times article expressed concern about whether "the attitude of Germany and the German plenipotentiaries, which left them still outside of formal reconciliation" posed a risk that the German National Assembly would not ratify the treaty.
Postwar Germany was governed under the "Weimar Republic." The Weimar government signed the Versailles Treaty, which made it immediately unpopular with the German people. Crippled by the conditions imposed by the treaty, the ineffectual government could due little to improve the German economy.
Far-right politicians promising to return Germany to its former glory began to accumulate power. In 1933, Hitler and his Nazi Party soon took control of the government, dissolving the Weimar Republic and establishing the Third Reich. Many historians argue that the Treaty of Versailles played a large role in Hitler's emergence.
On June 22, 1940, after Germany had invaded France for the fifth time since 1814, the two nations signed an armistice. At Hitler's insistence, the signing was held in the same railroad dining car in the Compiegne Forest, where 22 years earlier Germany had been forced to sign the armistice ending World War I.
Connect to Today:
As the article mentions, Germany invaded France four times in a 100-year period, starting in 1814, and again in 1940. How might that history affect Germany's relationship with France today?
As Europe copes with a debt crisis, what roles are being played by the leaders of France and Germany? How might their shared history, including the Versailles Treaty's "war guilt clause" and the resulting fallout in Germany, continue to resonate during the delicate negotiations over how to handle the economic crisis in Europe? How might German leaders draw on their knowledge of history as they participate in diplomatic talks with France and other European nations?
Learn more about what happened in history on June 28 
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
PUB-DATE: June 22, 1940
        
An Assault Case With International Implications
        
Test Yourself | July 23, 2010
        
Student Crossword | War Puzzles
        
How 'Few' Were in the 'Band of Brothers'? How History is Determined

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR I (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); HISTORY (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); DEBT CRISIS (62%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%) Adolf Hitler; France; Germany; Woodrow Wilson; World War I; Historic Headlines

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (72%) EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1065 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Artificial Limbs Low-Cost, and High-Quality

BYLINE: TINA ROSENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Making prostheses in developing countries that are both inexpensive and safe isn't easy, but it's possible.

 BODY:
In response to Friday's column about the Jaipur Limb, an inexpensive, locally-made artificial leg that has helped millions of impoverished people in poor countries to regain their dignity and livelihood, Laurie C. from Marina,Calif., (5), a reader who uses a wheelchair, made an important point: "It can be scary to know that you live in a body that is so dependent on inanimate equipment that if you don't have that equipment, you basically fall off the radar of life itself," she wrote. "You disappear from society, people avoid you, you become 'a burden' ... all for the lack of a piece of equipment." This is a very persuasive argument for why a low-cost wide-scale product like the Jaipur Limb is necessary.
But Laurie C. was not someone who couldn't afford a wheelchair. She had one, but she wrote in about a time when it wasn't working properly - she was stuck in bed for a week while she waited to have it repaired. Laurie C.'s experience is also a persuasive argument for being cautious about products like the Jaipur Limb. Low cost, low tech, made by technicians with a few weeks' training - these things are necessary to reach the people who need them most on a wide scale. But sometimes they come at a cost.
John Craig saw this first hand when he visited a Jaipur Limb workshop in Honduras. Craig, a prosthetist who now works in Abilene, Texas, was sent by the International Society of Prosthetics and Orthotics (ISPO) to visit Jaipur Limb workshops and camps in several places in 2000 and 2001. He saw some problems. "Many of the limbs we looked at were not fabricated to good biomechanical standards," he said. "You might have one joint bending higher than another. You might have joints canted in the opposite directions. They weren't lubricated, rivets were broken, legs bent too forward, there were sockets that created sores on the wearer's stump." Some people who received new limbs could not use them.
The issue was not the design of the leg, Craig said. He believes that it was and is a good design. But the technicians at the Honduras workshops were people completely new to prosthetics who were given just eight weeks of training by a Jaipur prosthetician, then left on their own. It just wasn't enough.
Others have seen different problems. Mel Stills is Senior Technical Advisor to the Leahy War Victims Fund, a program financed by the United States Agency for International Development. Stills went to a Jaipur Limb camp (these are different than the workshops because they travel and are staffed directly with Jaipur prosthetists) in Afghanistan in 1992 and saw "a significant number" of people discarding their legs right after getting them. He said that from reports he had received, the quality problems continue. "The World Health Organization and other organizations recognize that a well-trained prosthetist can probably provide 250 devices in a year, he said. The Jaipur Limb camps, he said, fit 500 limbs in a month. (The camps see more patients than that, but many are there for check ups or to get other mobility devices, such as wheelchairs or polio calipers.) Each camp has several licensed prosthestists and a few more technicians, but Stills felt they spent too little time with each patient to provide a well-fitted limb. (Craig did not find these problems in limb camps he visited. He was satisfied with their quality.)
Craig presented his findings at a meeting of the ISPO in 2004. The people who work on the Jaipur Limb could have reacted defensively to his criticisms of the workshops. Instead, they used the information to improve. Don Short of the Rotary Clubs of Britain and Ireland, which is the main economic supporter of the Jaipur Limb, had made the arrangements for Craig to visit sites in Africa and India. Short called Craig's evaluations "invaluable" and said, "Thanks to his research, several problems were highlighted."
Over the next few years, the Jaipur organization, which also goes by the acronym BMVSS, established a research and development unit to improve the limb. The group developed a wall-mounted frame using laser beams to ensure the proper alignment of limbs. They also made the foot narrower, so it fit into more kinds of shoes. They put on a non-slip bottom. They improved the socket for better fit and less chafing on the stump. "I was impressed with Jaipur itself," said Stills. "Craig had given them some recommendations, and they were addressing these problems."
The Rotary Jaipur Limb Project decided to buy a laser alignment frame for every workshop in Africa. It also introduced a rule that every permanent workshop needed to have at least one licensed prosthetist on staff.
The laser frame project is now complete - but that was the easy part. Finding enough qualified people, and persuading them to move to remote rural areas where many of the workshops exist, has been much harder. Africa has very few licensed training schools. So Rotary worked with Mulago Hospital in Kampala, Uganda, which has an orthopedics school, to include Jaipur Limb technology in its courses. USAID is giving grants to the ISPO to help cover scholarships to bring students from poor countries to prosthetics schools in Africa and Asia.
Undertrained technicians and too-rapid work are natural byproducts of projects that try to make an expensive and complex technology available on a mass basis. Very often, the limiting factor is trained personnel. Sometimes shifting jobs down to people with lower levels of training works brilliantly - rural health workers, even those with no education, are usually better than doctors or nurses at the preventive health care that is the foundation of village health. But in preventive health care, what matters is changing people's behavior, so empathy and close relationships are crucial. Making and fitting artificial legs demands a level of technical expertise that can't be acquired overnight.
The Jaipur program did the right thing to fix the workshops. It should evaluate its limb camps and treat any problems it finds with a similar degree of seriousness. The Jaipur Limb is an extraordinary product, one that can restore a lifetime of productivity for very little money - but only if it works.
Join Fixes on Facebook and follow updates on twitter.com/nytimesfixes.
Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book "The Haunted Land: Facing Europe's Ghosts After Communism." She is a former editorial writer for The Times and now a contributing writer for the paper's Sunday magazine. Her new book is "Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World." 

        
Helping the Lame Walk, Without a Miracle
        
To Survive Famine, Will Work for Insurance
        
Doing More Than Praying for Rain
        
Microfinance Under Fire
        
What Makes Community Health Care Work?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (94%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); ORTHOPEDICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (83%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (73%); BIOMECHANICS (63%) Africa; amputees; Honduras; India; Jaipur limb; prosthetic limbs; Rotary Club; Medicine and Health; Prostheses; Third World and Developing Countries; United States Agency for International Development; Jaipur (India); Fixes

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%) United States Agency for International Development

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); HONDURAS (90%); AFGHANISTAN (65%) Africa; Honduras; Jaipur (India)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1066 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Balancing Life and Work Around the World

BYLINE: LISA BELKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Are parents in other countries "torn."

 BODY:
In the Motherlode Book Club conversation about "Torn," Lisa Tomanelli, a reader from New York, raises a question that is central to the dilemma of work/life balance.
She writes:My question is: Are parents from countries with generous maternity and paternity leave policies torn?
My boyfriend and I are torn, not about 'to work or not to work' but about 'WHEN to start working.' We both cobbled together 5 months off. We both want to work but wish we could wait -- and our jobs could wait-- until our daughter was older. I think I would feel better about returning to work when she is 1 or 1.5 years old versus her being 5 months old, which is when we put her in care. But of course I can only say this from the perspective of not having extended leave -- I might still be torn when she is 1.5 years old.
Much of the "TORN" discussion on Motherlode has been either-or: to work or not to work, feeling torn or not feeling torn. A few women discussed being able to work part-time. Yes, I'm aware there are plenty of parents who leave the work force to raise children and then return -- these parents encounter a whole slew of other obstacles when returning to work, tempered by how much time they took off. But I am most curious about parents' experiences from countries with the great leave policies that Americans only read about. How do these parents feel about returning to work after a year's worth of state-backed, culturally accepted child care leave? Should we be envious or are the feelings the same no matter when a parent returns to the work force?The answer is yes. And no. Countries with a tradition of more supportive policies for parents do report a greater level of balance in their lives. Earlier this month, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development released the "Better Life Index," which ranks countries by, among other things, life/work balance. (It's worth a click to take a look at their graphic. You can play around with the life factors most important to you and the list changes in front of your eyes ...)
The OECD's definition of what makes a balanced life? An algorithm of the amount of time devoted to personal activities, the percentage of employees working 50 or more hours a week and the employment rate of women whose children are between the ages of 6 and 14.
The top ten countries were all ones that emphasize benefits for new parents:1. Denmark2. Norway3. Netherlands4. Finland5. Belgium6. Switzerland7. Sweden8. Germany9. Portugal10. FranceWhere, I hear you asking, did the U.S. rank in all of this? As the reporter Tara Kelly wrote in Time:It's good news for America's working moms, with employment above 73%. To put that into perspective, that's 7% higher than the OECD average. As for personal care and leisure, Americans devote 63% of their day, or 15.1 hours, to hobbies and taking care of themselves (compared with an OECD average of 15.46 hours.) But when it comes to hours spent at work, the figures show Americans are putting in 1,768 hours a year. That's well over the OECD average by almost 20 hours.That said, the original question here was a more complicated one. How do parents feel about leaving their children for work in countries where that leaving is delayed by paid benefits? Motherlode readers span the globe, and I'm thinking they will have some thoughts.
As for those of you here in the U.S., what do you think the barriers are here to policies that are the foundation of so many other cultures and economies?
Is it the "rugged individualism" streak in American culture that leads us to see raising children as an individual rather than a collective responsibility? Is it insurmountable sticker shock? Is it changing at all? In which direction?

        
Talking About 'Torn'
        
More on Women and Medicine
        
New Fears of Flying 
        
Putting Family Before Work
        
Three Faces of Work-Life Conflict

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WORK-LIFE BALANCE (93%); PARENTING (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CORPORATE CULTURE (89%); FAMILY LEAVE (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); PATERNITY LEAVE (77%); MATERNITY LEAVE (77%); MEN (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%) Life/Work Balance; Motherlode Book Club; Parenting; Work-Life Balance

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORWAY (79%); NETHERLANDS (72%); BELGIUM (58%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1067 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.

 BODY:
A collection of links by the reporters and editors of the Dining section.
The Washington Post: As is true in almost every war-zone city, there is a Chinese takeout joint in the middle of Tripoli. As ever, it provides a great yarn. -- Sam Sifton
Slate: The myth of New York's bagel supremacy is perpetuated by articles like this one, which also extends the spurious corollary, that you can't get a good bagel outside New York. -- Eric Asimov
Newsweek: Anthony Bourdain, while reflecting on his worst mistake (he says it was partying his way "out of a big-league career" as a chef), suggests that newcomers "do the opposite of what I did." -- Glenn Collins 
Sunset: Civil war breaks out in California: Which has the best food, Los Angeles or San Francisco? -- Julia Moskin
Chicago Reader: Critics and civilians stand up for the best eating, drinking and "tubular collaboration" in the Windy City. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Sake World Blog: John Gauntner lays out the connection between sake and the founder of judo, Professor Jigoro Kano. -- Eric Asimov
The Guardian: On the endless pain of reading restaurant menus and Web sites, and deciphering their philosophies. -- Sam Sifton
The San Francisco Chronicle: From Greece, Talia Baiocchi examines how the wine industry is adapting to the financial crisis. -- Eric Asimov 
The Wall Street Journal: Iowa publishing outfit Meredith has purchased Eating Well magazine, starts Recipe.com. -- Sam Sifton
Junoon NYC: Whiskey isn't a summer drink? Junoon's Highland Cooler says you're wrong. -- Julia Moskin
Miami New Times: More proof the Carl Hiaasen novels are true at heart. Because, honestly, if you were robbing a Miami fish market, wouldn't you take the lobster tails and grouper steaks, too? -- Sam Sifton
SFGate: Jon Bonne re-examines his critical stance toward the achievements of the University of California at Davis's department of viticulture and enology. -- Eric Asimov 
The Los Angeles Times: Oh no, Mr. Bill: a vegetarian couple on a cross-country road trip, trying to eat healthy food. But they actually did it -- but only thanks to that baked potato and salad at Wendy's in Midland, Tex. -- Glenn Collins 
SF Weekly: Jonathan Kauffman weighs in on Lucky Peach, "the first food magazine pitched toward a generation of modernist-cooking-loving, street-food addicts -- in short, eaters like me." -- Jeff Gordinier

        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading
        
What We're Reading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (88%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); WINE (69%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); HORTICULTURE (64%); NUTRITION (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); EATING DISORDERS (50%) What We're Reading

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (83%); WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1068 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Google's Green Energy Wish List

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: The company imagines a cost breakthrough in various energy areas, then tries to map out what the result would be for jobs, the economy and various products like hybrid cars.

 BODY:
For a moment, re-imagine Aladdin as an engineer. He finds his magic lamp in an industrial park in Silicon Valley or Boston or the Research Triangle in Raleigh-Durham, and the genie who emerges offers him three technological wishes. What should Aladdin wish for? Could any of his wishes go wrong? 
 On Tuesday morning, Google released a study of the potential impacts of "aggressive hypothetical cost breakthroughs" in clean energy technologies, from electricity generation and storage to electric vehicles to natural gas. The genie was not offering any energy efficiency wishes this time around, although Google acknowledges that those are crucial and says it has taken major steps to improve energy efficiency in its operations. 
Google used a computer model developed by McKinsey & Company to explore how energy innovations could create jobs in manufacturing and construction and how cheaper clean energy might improve the overall economy.
So what should Aladdin, P.E., ask for? 
At the top of Google's list was better electric cars and gas-electric hybrids because they could create large savings by 2030. While big advances in clean energy generation could have big benefits by 2050, in 2030 these would not show major financial benefits when compared with electricity from coal and natural gas, the study predicted. Electric cars, however, could show big savings over those than run on gasoline. If batteries could be sold at a cost of $100 per kilowatt-hour of storage, then pure electric cars, hybrid electrics like the Toyota Prius and plug-in electrics like the Chevy Volt could capture 90 percent of the vehicle market, the study said. (A kilowatt-hour will move a vehicle three or four miles and currently sells for about 10 cents at retail.) 
Whether this can happen by 2030 is not certain, but the battery industry set itself that goal in the 1990s. Lead-acid batteries sell for that price, but they do not meet the goals for pounds per kilowatt-hour, or per watt. Pounds per watt is a measure of how fast a battery can deliver power, or be recharged.
Other chemistries like lithium-ion approach the goals for pounds per kilowatt hour, but they sell for $600 a kilowatt hour. The price breakthrough needed for batteries is highly sensitive to the price of gasoline; if a gallon sells for $5 rather than $3.50, the price of the battery can be 50 percent higher and still be competitive, the study found. Google is hoping for early cost breakthroughs in the laboratory and then early adoption, but unless you are Aladdin, wishes and concrete developments are not the same thing. 
Another conclusion is that while technological breakthroughs are helpful, a supportive government policy leads to much faster adoption in the economy.
The tricky wish is for energy storage for the grid. Electricity storage in batteries, in compressed air or by some other means may be essential for integrating large amounts of solar power and wind power into the grid because their production cannot be scheduled and is often not well synchronized with peak demand. 
But the study found that in the absence of a shift in government policy, improvements in energy storage might end up simply allowing greater use of coal. "Basically it'll allow you to run the cheapest thing you've got, more'' said Bill Weihl, whose title at Google is green energy czar. 
At present, the cheapest option tends to be coal plants late at night. Many coal plants shut down at night or run at partial load, so electricity is very cheap during those hours. If inexpensive energy storage were developed, the cheapest way to meet peak demand might be to run coal plants at night and store the energy for later use. But that also would entail higher carbon dioxide emissions, for two reasons. 
First, coal plants emit more carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour than other sources, including natural gas plants, which are usually used to meet peak demand now. Second, electricity storage systems are a bit like leaky buckets; they do not return as much energy as is put into them. So to get 8 or 9 kilowatt-hours delivered on a hot afternoon may require storing 10 kilowatt-hours the night before. 
Google is not actually looking for a genie. "This is not a prediction of what will happen,'' Mr. Weihl said. He described it more as an exploration of what benefits would accrue from breakthroughs in various areas -- "What are the things we should aim for? ''
And the target is moving, he noted: solar cells, wind machines and batteries are all getting better, he said, but so is the technology of extracting oil and natural gas and the fuel economy of traditional automobiles. 
Because so many of the study's conclusions rely on variables like the cost of conventional fuels, and whether a price will be imposed on carbon dioxide emissions, Google set up an interactive Web site that allows viewers to come up with their own predictions and see how that would affect the outcome. Mr. Weihl said Google got the idea from a New York Times graphic feature on how to balance the federal budget.

        
Q. and A.: The Renewable Energy Czar
        
Harnessing the Sun to Store the Wind
        
A Hybrid Power Plant Takes Shape in Turkey
        
How Clean Is Clean?
        
Awards Season for Environmentalists

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (94%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (92%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); WIND ENERGY (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); LEAD (65%); TRENDS (60%) Batteries; Coal; Energy Efficiency; energy storage; Google; grid; Natural Gas; solar power; Wind Power; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Automobiles; Economic Conditions and Trends; Electric Vehicles; Fuel Efficiency; Hybrid Vehicles; Solar Energy; Google Inc; Weihl, Bill; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Conventional Energy; Emissions Reduction; Energy Business; Energy Economics; renewable energy; Science

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Google Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%) Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (88%); DURHAM, NC, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1069 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1944 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter.

 BODY:
On Obama, Wall St. Shows a Reluctance to Commit | President Obama's $35,800-a-plate fund-raising dinner was the talk of Wall Street last week.
The big news, however, was who was not there, writes Andrew Ross Sorkin in his latest DealBook column. No Jamie Dimon, once referred to as the president's "favorite banker." No Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs, a longtime Democratic supporter.
The conventional wisdom, of course, is that Wall Street has turned its back on Mr. Obama out of frustration with his so-called antibusiness rhetoric and "fat cat" comments about bankers. But behind the scenes, it seems that many bankers are not running away from the president as quickly as some might suspect.DealBook Post a Comment
DEAL NOTES
Reckless Endangerment | The new book by Gretchen Morgenson and the analyst Joshua Rosner is an angry accounting of the causes of the housing boom and the consequences of its bust, Pam Luecke writes in a New York Times review.NEW YORK TIMES 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Dish to Walk Away With TerreStar? | It appears that Dish Network's $1.38 billion stalking-horse bid for the assets of TerreStar Networks will win the day, as no other bidders stepped up before the deadline, Reuters reported.REUTERS 
Corporations Can't Spend Fast Enough | The vast cash pile hoarded by corporations, which has led to so many deal rumors of late, is beginning to be spent, but not fast enough to drain the coffers, The Wall Street Journal reports. It's a nice problem to have.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
Vedanta Raises Stake in Cairn India | Vedanta Resources increased its stake in Cairn Energy's Indian assets by an additional 10 percent, as the miner moved ahead on a restructured deal for a majority stake in Cairn India.REUTERS 
Saab Revs Up Property Deal | The cash-strapped automaker announced a deal with a group of Swedish real estate investors that would see Saab selling and leasing back part of its property assets.MARKETWATCH 
Lehman Said to Sell Toy Building to JPMorgan Unit | Lehman Brothers has agreed to sell its 90 percent stake in 200 Fifth Ave., the Manhattan building that was once home to the International Toy Center, to a real estate fund run by J.P. Morgan Asset Management for around $700 million, The Wall Street Journal reported.WALL STREET JOURNAL | NEW YORK OBSERVER 
Li Ka-shing Firm Eyes British Utility | Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings said it was weighing a bid for the British water utility, Northumbrian Water.REUTERS 
Green Light on White Spirits | Diageo has received Chinese approval to raise its stake in the white spirits company Sichuan Shuijingfang to 53 percent, but the British beverage company said it did not plan to take full control of it.REUTERS | PRESS RELEASE 
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Former Citigroup Accountant Accused of Stealing Millions | Gary Foster, an accountant at Citigroup until January, has been accused of embezzling more than $19 million from the bank, wiring money disguised under false deal numbers to his personal account. He has returned from abroad voluntarily to face charges, and has pleaded not guilty.NEW YORK TIMES 
Credit Suisse Chief Penalized $750,000 in Divorce Case | Brady W. Dougan, the Credit Suisse chief, missed a divorce settlement payment by 12 days. The Connecticut Supreme Court ruled that this was a costly mistake.DealBook 
Goldman Is Said to Plan Substantial U.S. Job Cuts; Singapore Expansion | Goldman Sachs is planning "a significant retrenchment" in its American work force, while at the same time gearing up to add 1,000 jobs to its Singapore office, Fox Business reports. Fearing criticism, the bank has moved to alert lawmakers of its plans, before informing its own shareholders, according to the publication.FOX BUSINESS 
A Big Deal for Goldman's Sykes? | One of Goldman Sachs's top mergers bankers has reportedly struck a big deal: a $40 million estate once owned by Iris Cantor.DealBook 
To Cut or Not to Cut? | Wall Street is thinking about layoffs again as trading desks bring in less money. But the industry has drastically reduced headcount before, sometimes on the eve of a rebound, and former employees can be hard to lure back. So for the moment, executives are watching the numbers and employees are holding their breath, Reuters Breakingviews reports.DealBook 
French Banks Back Greek Respite | President Nicolas Sarkozy of France said that his country's banks were willing to go to bat for Europe with a rollover of some of Greece's debt. The banks have agreed to reinvest most of the Greek debt they hold, which is set to mature in the next three years, in longer-term securities.NEW YORK TIMES 
Chasing Business, Moelis Adds Advisers | Moelis & Company has appointed five senior directors to a new advisory board in an effort to win new clients and work with corporations and governments.DealBook 
B.M.O. Wants You | Bank of Montreal is looking for deal makers. The bank's capital markets arm is extending a two-year hiring push in the United States to meet M.&A. advisory demand.REUTERS 
Good Numbers | Standard Chartered said on Tuesday that its first-half profit, up over 10 percent from the period a year earlier, had put the bank on a course to break records.REUTERS 
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Women Break Down Barriers in Mideast Finance | Some successful women financiers have found it easier to create their own financial firms rather than to fight to get ahead in male-dominated companies.DealBook 
Schwarzman's 'Sole Discretion' | The Securities and Exchange Commission asked the Blackstone Group to clarify how it determined its executive remuneration, noting in a letter dated April 25 and disclosed Monday that the ultimate sums received were "subject to adjustment by [Stephen] Schwarzman in his sole discretion" and requesting instead that the private equity firm outline the "individual performance factors" for each of its employees.BLOOMBERGS NEWS | REUTERS | S.E.C. FILING 
Acarpita Appoints Banks for Viridian Debt | Arcapita has tapped Deutsche Bank, Royal Bank of Scotland and UBS to refinance as much as 810 million of debt for Viridian, the Irish utility owned by Arcapita. The move comes after junior creditors, including Elliott Advisors, dropped a suit seeking to block the sale of a Viridian subsidiary.REUTERS 
HEDGE FUNDS 
Of Hedge Funds and Baseball | JPMorgan Chase's Highbridge Capital Management is the latest hedge fund to see dollar signs in struggling baseball teams. The Los Angeles Dodgers will pay 10 percent interest on a $150 million loan from Highbridge to keep the now-bankrupt team on the field, according to Bloomberg News.
While the sport has weathered a long line of scandals and bad investments, it still offers long-term value as America's beloved pastime. It is no wonder the hedge fund industry is jumping in, Reuters Breakingviews says. REUTERS | BLOOMBERG NEWS 
Dodging a Bullet | The Los Angeles Dodgers filed for bankruptcy on Monday, a move that would allow the team to cover expenses for the next month as it attempted to work out a deal for its cable television rights and settle a dispute with Major League Baseball's commissioner, Bud Selig.NEW YORK TIMES 
Goldman Said to Be Hopping Mad Over Defection of Trafalgar Star | Goldman Sachs is apparently not pleased with moves by Lee Robinson to raise cash for a new hedge fund venture after the bank, via its Peterhsill fund, is said to have paid as much as $100 million for a 20 percent stake in Mr. Robinson's hedge fund, Trafalgar Asset Managers, The Financial Times reports.FINANCIAL TIMES | BUSINESS INSIDER 
Hong Kong Group to Buy RAB Funds | The Sunwah Group, controlled by the wealthy Choi family of Hong Kong, said on Monday that it was planning to buy two funds from RAB Capital, the troubled British hedge fund firm that recently decided to delist.PRESS RELEASE | FINANCIAL TIMES 
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Global Filing Fastest Since 2007 | More than 720 companies have filed for initial public offerings worth as much as $67 billion, the highest quarterly number since 794 companies filed for I.P.O.'s in the last quarter of 2007, Bloomberg News reports.BLOOMBERG NEWS 
PhosAgro Price Range Values Company at $6.1 Billion | The Russian fertilizer company PhosAgro has set an indicative price range of $13 to $16.50 per global depositary receipt for its London listing.REUTERS | BUSINESS INSIDER 
A Naked Reprieve | The Securities and Exchange Commission gave broker-dealers more time to comply with a new federal ban on the practice of renting out naked access to high-frequency trading firms.REUTERS 
Bain-Backed Trinseo to Go Public | Bain Capital is hoping to raise as much as $400 million through an initial public offering of Trinseo, the plastics maker formerly known as the Styron Corporation. Bain Capital paid $1.63 billion to buy Styron from Dow Chemical last year.REUTERS 
Oil Offering in Malaysia | Bumi Armada, a Malaysian oil and gas services company, is hoping to raise more than $900 million in an initial public offering, a source told The Wall Street Journal.WALL STREET JOURNAL 
VENTURE CAPITAL 
V.C.'s Go 'Light Green' | After gorging on cash-needy clean-tech start-ups, venture capitalists are now turning their attention to companies in the sector whose models do not require as much financing to bring to market.REUTERS 
Pet360 Raises $18 Million | The pet information company said on Monday that it had raised $18 million in a round led by Updata Partners.PET360 
Solar Firm Lands Funding From Constellation | The Baltimore-based utility Constellation provided an undisclosed amount of funding for Astrum Solar, a provider of residential solar panels.VENTUREBEAT 
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Former Executives Claim Marsh 'Colluded' With Spitzer | Two former executives of Marsh & McLennan, William Gilman and Edward McNenney, whose convictions were thrown out last year, allege that they were offered up to be prosecuted so that the insurance broker would not be.DealBook 
Obama's Choice on Jobs: Politics or Policy | Bill George, a Harvard professor, argues that time is running out for President Obama to implement policies that will restore America's economic competitiveness.DealBook 
Financial Terror | Adbul Qadir Fitrat, governor of the Afghan central bank, said he would step down because an investigation into hundreds of millions of dollars lost by Kabulbank had led him to fear assassination.REUTERS 
Former UBS Client Admits to Hiding Millions | A disbarred lawyer based in New York, Kenneth Heller, has pleaded guilty to hiding more than $26 million in an account at UBS and another Swiss bank. He is the sixth to make such a plea out of seven people charged with tax evasion in April 2010.REUTERS 
Google Hit With Suit by Small French Company | A French Internet company, 1PlusV, is seeking $421 million in damages from Google that it claims it is owed as a result of the American search giant's anticompetitive behavior.NEW YORK TIMES 
Tribune Creditor Groups Lay Out Their Arguments | Competing Tribune creditor groups made their final arguments before a bankruptcy judge on Monday, two years after a huge leveraged buyout pushed the media company into Chapter 11.REUTERS 
There's a Joke in Here Somewhere | In an effort to determine just how big the surplus of lawyers is across the country, measured state by state, Economic Modeling Specialists found that every state except Wisconsin and Nebraska were producing more lawyers than there are job openings.ECONOMIX 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

        
Morning Take-Out
        
Morning Take-Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); MERGERS (71%); DIVESTITURES (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (67%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (66%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (66%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (61%); AUTOMAKERS (61%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (61%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (60%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (60%) Morning Take-Out; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); DISH NETWORK CORP (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC (53%); CAIRN ENERGY PLC (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%); CHEUNG KONG INFRASTRUCTURE HOLDINGS LTD (51%); DIAGEO PLC (50%); NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); DISH (NASDAQ) (55%); VED (LSE) (53%); CNE (LSE) (53%); JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%); 1038 (HKSE) (51%); DGE (PAR) (50%); DGE (LSE) (50%); DEO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (53%); NAICS212231 LEAD ORE & ZINC ORE MINING (53%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (51%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (50%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (50%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (50%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (50%); NAICS221320 SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITIES (50%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%); JAMES DIMON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (50%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1070 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Speculation Behind High Gas Prices, Report Says

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The report by researchers at Amherst criticizes the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for not restraining speculative energy trading.

 BODY:
Speculative commodities trading on Wall Street is significantly inflating prices at the gas pump, according to a new report by researchers at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. The report criticizes regulators for not restraining speculative energy trading and calls upon the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to finally put trading limits in place. 
Over the seven months through May, the average price of gasoline around the country jumped by roughly $1, or 35 percent, the report said. Since then, gas prices have retreated a bit as oil prices backed off their highs above $100 a barrel.
Turmoil in oil-producing countries across the Middle East and growing demand for oil elsewhere was responsible for some of the run-up in gasoline prices. But, the report contended, oil speculators drove much of this year's surge in prices. The speculation, according to the report, cost the average consumer an extra 83 cents a gallon in May, amounting to a more than $1 billion premium across the country. 
Exxon Mobil's chief executive, Rex W. Tillerson, recently told Congress that absent speculative trading, oil should cost only $60 to $70 a barrel, compared with the $90-to-$100 mark where it has hovered for several months. 
"A big chunk of what all of us are paying at the pump for gasoline today is going straight into the pockets of Wall Street speculators," said the report's co-author, Robert Pollin, a director of the Political Economy Research Institute and an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
Mr. Pollin, teaming up with a group of consumer advocates who favor strict financial regulation, is now lobbying regulators to rein in speculative trading. 
Under the Dodd-Frank regulatory law enacted last year, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is supposed to "diminish, eliminate or prevent excessive speculation." Congress instructed the agency to start enforcing trading limits in January. 
But the C.F.T.C. has so far delayed a plan to enact so-called position limits on 28 commodities - oil, wheat, corn and the like. Existing position limits apply to only nine items.
"There's no reason that you can't make position limits work," Mr. Pollin said. "This is something that Congress passed and it is the obligation of the C.F.T.C. to represent the interests of the American people and that means establishing serious position limits without hordes of exemptions."
Position limits have set off months of internal wrangling at the agency. Some commissioners want to delay the rules until regulators can collect more data on speculative trading, while others say the agency has been too slow to act. 
"We haven't done it, and we need to do something now," Bart Chilton, a Democratic commissioner, said at a C.F.T.C. meeting in May.

        
C.F.T.C. Proposes Curbs on Speculative Commodity Trading
        
Lawmakers Challenge Derivatives Rules

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUTURES (94%); SECURITIES TRADING (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); ENERGY MARKETS (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CORN MARKETS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); LOBBYING (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission; speculation; Pollin, Robert; Tillerson, Rex W; Futures and Options Trading; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Energy/Utilities; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: REX W TILLERSON (85%) Pollin, Robert; Tillerson, Rex W

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1071 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Could Obama Just Ignore the Debt Ceiling?

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: A few political scientists, budget wonks and constitutional scholars argue that he could.

 BODY:
In the ongoing debate over raising the debt ceiling, one option has not had much prominence: whether the Obama administration could ignore it altogether, and just spend the money it owes anyway. Would that be legal?
Matthew Zeitlin at The New Republic spoke with a few political scientists, budget wonks and constitutional scholars who argue that it would be. An excerpt:Garrett Epps, a legal journalist and professor at University of Baltimore School of Law, has made an even broader argument in a pair of articles for The Atlantic's website. In an interview, Epps told me that there was a strong argument that the debt ceiling is unconstitutional because it exceeds the legislative branch's power of the purse. The argument goes like this: Because Congress already appropriated the funds in question, it is the executive branch's duty to enact those appropriations. The debt ceiling, then, is legislative "double-counting," because the executive branch is obligated to spend the money Congress appropriates, without having to go back and ask again for permission.Of course, ignoring the debt ceiling could have some severe political consequences, especially since most Americans do not seem to realize that doing so primarily requires making good on payments already promised, as opposed to committing to new spending. That may explain why most Americans still are against raising the ceiling.

        
German Billionaires for a 'Rich Tax'
        
Preventing Future Debt Crises in Europe
        
More Answers on Europe's Debt Crisis
        
Europe's Debt Crisis: Your Questions Answered
        
Bring Your Questions on the European Debt Crisis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (94%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%) debt ceiling; fiscal policy; national debt; National Debt (US); United States Politics and Government

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1072 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Convicted

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
Today's Times Former aides say Rod R. Blagojevich once envisioned himself a presidential contender, but a jury in Chicago decreased those odds on Monday when it convicted Mr. Blagojevich, the former governor of Illinois, of a broad pattern of corruption. He was found guilty of 17 federal counts against him, including charges that he tried to personally benefit from his role in selecting a replacement for President Obama in the United States Senate, Monica Davey and Emma G. Fitzsimmons report. Mr. Obama held talks with Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, in the White House on Monday in negotiations aimed at raising the nation's debt ceiling. But the White House and Congressional Republicans remained deeply divided over whether a budget-cutting deal tied to a debt limit should contain new federal revenues, Carl Hulse reports. Mr. Obama's spokesman said Republicans must be willing to consider tax changes, including the elimination of "loopholes" that benefit corporations. Representative Michele Bachmann returned Monday to her childhood home of Waterloo, Iowa, to formally open her presidential campaign and ask voters there to "make a bold choice" when deciding on a Republican nominee. The expectations for Mrs. Bachmann have increased significantly since she first hinted at the idea of running for president a few months ago, Jeff Zeleny reports. She now faces the challenge of building a campaign structure that can capture the grassroots enthusiasm surrounding her. The Supreme Court struck down an Arizona law on Monday that provided escalating matching funds to candidates who accept public financing. The majority's rationale was that the law violated the First Amendment rights of candidates who raise private money, Adam Liptak reports.Around the Web The Texas Legislature approved a bill on Monday that would strip financing from abortion providers like Planned Parenthood, Politico reports.Happenings around Washington On Capitol Hill, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee will take up the subject of U.S. military involvement in Libya and the War Powers Resolution. The Judiciary committee's immigration subcommittee has scheduled a hearing on the Dream Act. Both sessions begin at 10 a.m. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will be talking with India's finance minister, Pranab Mukherjee, at the second annual meeting of the U.S.-India Economic and Financial Partnership.

        
The Early Word: Stealth 
        
The Weekend Word: Rejection
        
The Early Word: No Deal
        
The Early Word: Drawdown
        
The Early Word: The Price of War

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CALENDARS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); VERDICTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); POLITICS (76%); DEBT CEILING (76%); BUDGETS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); TAX LAW (69%); APPROVALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (62%); IMMIGRATION (62%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (62%); ABORTION (62%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%); BUDGET CUTS (54%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); PRANAB MUKHERJEE (79%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%); HARRY REID (55%); MITCH MCCONNELL (55%); MICHELE BACHMANN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1073 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Pawlenty Calls Obama's Mideast Policy a 'Failure'

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Tim Pawlenty calls President Obama a foreign-policy failure, and warns fellow Republicans against isolationism.

 BODY:
Tim Pawlenty accused President Obama on Tuesday of a complete foreign policy failure when it came to the Middle East, mocking the president's policy of "engagement" as weak and timid and saying his lack of judgment about Israel was "stunning."
In a speech to the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, Mr. Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, offered himself as the foreign policy hawk in the Republican race, swiping at his rivals for what he said were their "isolationist sentiments" in the face of the president's failures.
"America already has one political party devoted to decline, retrenchment and withdrawal; it does not need a second one," Mr. Pawlenty said, according to an advance copy of the speech provided by his campaign.
But Mr. Pawlenty's primary target in the speech was Mr. Obama. In what aides billed as a major foreign policy address, Mr. Pawlenty said the president's administration had mishandled the democratic uprisings in the Middle East and North Africa and had backed away from America's ally in the region, Israel.
"It breaks my heart that President Obama treats Israel, our great friend, as a problem, rather than as an ally," Mr. Pawlenty said. "Today the president doesn't really have a policy toward the peace process. He has an attitude. And let's be frank about what that attitude is: He thinks Israel is the problem."
Mr. Pawlenty said Mr. Obama's policy of engagement with the Arab world led to a lack of support for democratic protesters in Iran and Egypt and a knee-jerk willingness to back leaders in Egypt and Syria in the face of demands for freedom among the people there.
In the speech, Mr. Pawlenty offered what he said were four different approaches to the countries in the Middle East. Among those, he said, is a need to develop trust with monarchies like Saudi Arabia, which are resisting the push toward democracy.
"We need to tell the Saudis what we think, which will only be effective if we have a position of trust with them," Mr. Pawlenty said. "We will develop that trust by demonstrating that we share their great concern about Iran and that we are committed to doing all that is necessary to defend the region from Iranian aggression."
In Egypt, Mr. Pawlenty said Mr. Obama's actions were perceived by demonstrators as a lack of support. "They perceived correctly. It was a lack of support," Mr. Pawlenty said, adding that as president he would be more blunt with the Egyptian government about America's demands for freedom there.
"If we want these countries to succeed, we must afford them the respect of telling them the truth," he said.
The speech comes as Mr. Pawlenty is struggling to break out in a campaign that has been dominated recently by the entries of Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota and Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah. Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, is leading in polls that show Mr. Pawlenty at the bottom of the pack.
Mr. Pawlenty is trying to take advantage of a rift in his party over the extent of the country's involvement overseas. Both Mr. Huntsman and Mr. Romney have expressed support for efforts to bring troops home from Afghanistan.
Mr. Huntsman, in particular, has said that America's economic struggles demand a quick end to the costly war. In a statement sent out before Mr. Pawlenty's speech, Mr. Huntsman said that "America can best project strength in the world when we are strong at home and able to take on our enemies where they are, not when we are expending resources fighting expensive ground wars for which there is no defined exit strategy."
In his speech, Mr. Pawlenty mocked that approach. He called Mr. Obama "timid and slow" when it came to responding aggressively to world events. And he said the Republican Party should not join Mr. Obama in shrinking from the challenges to American leadership.
"History repeatedly warns us that in the long run, weakness in foreign policy costs us and our children much more than we'll save in a budget line item," Mr. Pawlenty said in the speech.

        
Bin Laden Killing Likely to Change Republican Debate
        
Running Against Bachmann Poses Challenges for Male Rivals
        
What to Watch For in the Republican Money Race
        
Clinton Warns House Democrats Against Defunding Libya Operations
        
2012 Republicans Respond to Obama Speech

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (95%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (67%) foreign policy; tim pawlenty; Pawlenty, Tim; Presidential Election of 2012; United States International Relations; Elections

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (58%)

PERSON: TIM PAWLENTY (95%); BARACK OBAMA (92%) Pawlenty, Tim

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) MIDDLE EAST (95%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); SYRIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1074 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: A Second Try on Immigration Act

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois will try again to win passage of the Dream Act, which would help the children of some illegal immigrants.

 BODY:
Senator Richard J. Durbin spoke to a crowd of capped and gowned young people, pumping then up with encouraging words as sustenance for their journey ahead. "When I look around this room, I see America's future," he said.
But the remarks of Mr. Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, were not delivered to a crowd waiting to hear "Pomp and Circumstance." Instead, he was speaking Tuesday to an overflowing audience of students and supporters at a hearing of the Senate Judiciary Committee's immigration subcommittee to discuss bringing the legislation known as Dream Act back before Congress.
Mr. Durbin has long championed the measure, which provides a six-year path to permanent residency for some children of illegal immigrants. Under the act, the specifically defined group of people can attain full United States citizenship if they keep their criminal record clean, graduate high school and attend college or join the military.
The measure was sidelined by a Senate filibuster in September, but Mr. Durbin is hoping it can be passed this year with help from key members of the Obama administration, including Janet Napolitano, secretary of Homeland Security, and Arne Duncan, education secretary, both of whom testified in support of the bill Tuesday.
Without the act, many of the high school graduates attending the hearing will not have a shot at a college commencement.
"It goes against our national interest to deny these students a college education," Mr. Duncan said, predicting that their personal enrichment will help supply America's need for citizens who can out-innovate competitors. Citing figures provided by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, Mr. Duncan added that legalizing some of the children of illegal immigrants could add $1.7 billion to the economy over 10 years.
Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, pressed Ms. Napolitano on a stipulation in the act that would give her the authority to waive educational requirements for some Dream Act applicants on a case-by-case basis.
He said he was uncomfortable with that stipulation, as well as another that allows participants to be convicted of two misdemeanors before being expelled from the program. "In New York, sexual assault of a minor in the third degree is a misdemeanor," he said.
She responded by telling Mr. Cornyn that, given the limits of her department's budget, deporting teenagers who have spent much of their lives in the United States and hope to enroll in college "does not fall within our enforcement priorities."

        
Senate Democrats Reintroduce Dream Act
        
Napolitano Backs Immigration Bill
        
Reid Trying Again on Immigration Bill
        
New Senate Leadership, a Lot Like the Old 
        
Sunday Breakfast Menu: Aug. 9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); POLITICS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MISDEMEANORS (89%); BUDGETS (86%); FILIBUSTER (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); DEPORTATION (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (71%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (68%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); SEX OFFENSES (61%) D; dick durbin; Dream Act; immigration; john-cornyn; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (92%); JOHN CORNYN (79%); JANET NAPOLITANO (76%); ARNE DUNCAN (70%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1075 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: The Ripples of a Debt Crisis

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Money market funds have long been a popular haven for conservative investors, but they could become one way that the tremors of the financial crisis in Greece touch the pocketbooks of Americans -- about 50 million of them.
For years, the funds in the United States have taken investors' money and lent it out where they can get the best returns. European banks have been a target lately -- so much so that about 50 percent of the funds' $1.6 trillion in prime money market assets is in the debt of European banks.
Now that Europe is struggling to contain its debt crisis, these safe investments could be a tad less safe, especially if Greece's Parliament votes down a set of deeply unpopular austerity measures Wednesday morning. 
While any losses on money market funds could be minimal, especially compared with the turmoil that could ensue in stock and bond markets, the possible effect on this corner of the financial markets shows how the ripple effects could reach far and wide if Europe cannot resolve its debt crisis.
''A lot of them are exposed to a risk of a blowup somewhere in Europe,'' Rene M. Stulz, professor of banking and monetary economics at Ohio State University, said about money market funds. ''It does present systemic risk.''
Some experts and the funds themselves play down the risks, expressing confidence in the underlying safety of the European banks' debt that they own.
A primary fear is that if a European bank indebted to the funds is weakened in the crisis, then it might have a hard time repaying its loans. But even the perception of trouble could, in a worse case, cause financial markets to seize up and send investors rushing to withdraw money. That is what happened after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008 hit one fund that owned Lehman debt, the Reserve Primary Fund, causing a huge run on all funds.
Some investors have already withdrawn money from these funds. Their worry is that the chance of a Greek default increases if the country's lawmakers fail to approve a set of tax increases, wage cuts and asset sales. The legislation is necessary to qualify the country for $17 billion in outside aid to get it through the summer. Unless the European governments step in, the fear of a default could potentially set off turmoil across the world's financial markets.
If that happens, analysts say, Greek bond yields would jump. The euro and stock markets would fall. The cost of lending between European banks might potentially spike as banks doubt one another's creditworthiness.
The funds hold large amounts of debt of banks in nations at the core of Europe, like France and Germany. They now lend about $240 billion to French banks, or 14.8 percent of the funds' assets, according to Fitch Ratings. French banks are among the biggest holders of the government debt of Greece and other weak countries, which would leave them exposed if Greece or other nations run into more trouble.
As the crisis has simmered over the last two years, fund managers have decreased their direct lending to banks in the weakest countries of the euro currency zone -- Greek, Portugal and Ireland -- and even in Spain and Italy. Their holdings in Greek debt are zero. Their percentage of assets in Spanish debt has declined to 0.2 percent from 3.3 percent in 2008.
''With very few exceptions, the money market mutual funds don't have much direct exposure to the three peripheral countries which are currently dealing with debt problems,'' Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said last week. ''They do have substantial exposure to European banks in the so-called core countries: Germany, France, etc. So to the extent that there is indirect impact on the core European banks, that does pose some concern to money market mutual funds.''
Underscoring those worries, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, James Bullard, told Dow Jones Newswires on Tuesday that the bank planned to keep open its dollar lending program with the European Central Bank and other central banks beyond the Aug. 1 expiration date. That move should help ease some of the pressure on European banks by providing an alternative to money market funds to help them fund their daily operations in dollars.
In his earlier remarks, Mr. Bernanke said the industry was still working on reforms to make money market funds safer. After the financial crisis of 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission put in tougher regulations, cutting to 60 days from 90 days the average maturity of debt that the funds can hold so that they can get out of bad loans more quickly.
In addition, at least 30 percent of their assets must be in cash or other holdings that can be exchanged for cash within a week, and 10 percent in assets that can be changed for cash in a day. Regulators also have new powers to suspend redemptions if there is a run on a fund.
But the moves are incomplete. The industry and regulators are still discussing possible changes, like plans for buffer funds to bail out investments that get into trouble.
In the last two weeks, investors have withdrawn $45.6 billion from prime money market funds, according to data from the Investment Company Institute. That is the biggest two-week withdrawal since another jittery two weeks in March last year. After the Lehman panic in 2008, investors lost out when the Reserve Primary Fund ''broke the buck,'' reporting a share price of 97 cents to savers who had long expected an unwavering share price of a dollar.
They faced another cost when, amid the panic, redemptions were frozen and they could not get to their money. There were also bigger systemic costs since American corporations that borrowed from money funds were shut out of the market for a time.
Michael Matson, of Matson Financial Advisors in Danbury, Conn., said that in the last year he has had 20 to 30 clients ask to move out of money market funds and into short-term bank accounts because of rising global concerns. .
Money market accounts have typically offered a higher return than bank accounts. But their returns have dwindled as interest rates have fallen in recent years -- and bank accounts offer the additional security of a guarantee from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
''There is a heightening anxiety about protecting principal, linked to the craziness of 2008, Madoff and what is happening around the world,'' said Mr. Matson, who advises people living in the Westchester County and Connecticut area and are making investments from $500,000 to $3 million. ''People are now realizing we are interconnected and what happens in Greece may impact on Main Street, Connecticut.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters in Athens ran from riot police on Tuesday. A vote on a set of austerity measures is expected on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIS MESSINIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Sign of Nervousness: Two weeks ago, money market fund assets had their second-largest decline, in percentage terms, since the financial crisis of 2008. (Source: Investment Company Institute) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (91%); EURO CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); APPROVALS (69%); TAX LAW (69%); CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); GREECE (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1076 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: Home Prices Turn Upward, And Markets Follow

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
After weeks of worries about the economy pulled stocks down, indexes have risen sharply for two days in a row.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 145 points on Tuesday, in part on signs that concerns about a global slowdown may be overblown. The increase followed a 109-point gain on Monday. 
Quarterly results from Nike that beat analysts' expectations helped a rally in stocks of clothing stores, restaurants and jewelers on Tuesday. Such companies tend to do well when consumers are less worried about things like high gas prices and are willing to spend on themselves.
Other industries that do well during periods of economic expansion led the stock market higher. Caterpillar, one of the 30 Dow stocks, gained the most, rising 2.3 percent. Industrials gained 1.2 percent over all. Consumer discretionary companies gained 1.6 percent.
Signs of gains in the housing market helped lift Home Depot, which benefits when consumers spend on home improvement. It gained 2.1 percent after a report that home prices rose in April in 13 of the 20 cities tracked by the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller index. The index rose for the first time in eight months after the annual spring increase.
The long slump in the housing market has slowed the American economic recovery. Housing usually leads the economy out of recessions. But that has not been the case with the current recovery, which began in June 2009.
A decline in the confidence of American consumers to a seven-month low, largely because of worries about jobs, did not slow gains in stocks.
The Dow gained 145.13 points, or 1.21 percent, to 12,188.69. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 16.57 points, or 1.29 percent, to 1,296.67, and the Nasdaq composite index added 41.03, or 1.53 percent, to 2,729.31.
Signs that Greece was making progress in its debt crisis also buoyed markets. On Monday, French banks agreed to accept slower repayment on Greek debts, an important step in avoiding a Greek debt default.
The benchmark 10-year Treasury fell 29/32 to 100 25/32, pushing the yield up to 3.03 percent from 2.93 percent on Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); HOME CENTERS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1077 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 552 words

HEADLINE: Leaderless in Europe: The list of crises is frightening, so is the lack of vision

 BODY:
The survival of the common European Union currency, free movement across national borders and trans-Atlantic collective security are all in serious doubt. Europe's leaders are in denial or paralyzed. 
How could any European leader let these pillars of the Continent's well-being be jeopardized? The problem is there are no European leaders, just a German chancellor, a French president, an Italian prime minister and others who profess a continental vision but never look much beyond their local political interests.
Europe's unraveling is also a problem for Americans. A fracturing of the euro could drag down the global economy. A breakdown of NATO would mean the United States would have to bear an even bigger security burden. More than a year into their debt crisis, major European leaders are still unable to make the necessary tough decisions. The constructive way out would be to restructure excessive debt, recapitalize affected banks and relax austerity enough to let debtor countries -- Greece, Ireland and Portugal are most at risk -- grow their way back to solvency. No one country could afford to finance such a solution, but Europe as a whole could.
In a welcome concession to reality, France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy, announced that French banks are now prepared to ''voluntarily'' extend the maturity of some Greek debt. That could help, but only if all of Europe follows France's lead -- Germany's banks have yet to sign on -- and then eases its pressure on Athens for still more austerity. Selling this to European voters will require politicians to tell the truth. The alternative is to let the euro-zone break apart and trade suffer across the Continent.
The opening of most European internal borders over the past two decades has been an economic boon. But almost every country has also seen an alarming rise of anti-immigrant political parties. Economic crisis and the arrival of tens of thousands of Tunisian and Libyan refugees have pushed this xenophobia to new levels. France, Italy and Denmark have sought to selectively opt out of the historic Schengen agreement, with its passport-free borders. The refugee problem is also too big for any one country to handle. It, too, requires real European leadership.
Europe's early response to Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi's brutality in Libya was promising. France pushed hard for international action, and NATO allies agreed to assume leadership after a round of American airstrikes.
But the cost of years of military underinvestment by most European members quickly became clear, as they had to turn to Washington for bombs and other basic support. Collective defense always assumed that America would come to Europe's aid against a superpower like the Soviet Union. But European NATO's inability to master a minor challenge like Libya should frighten every defense ministry in Europe.
Americans are weary of war -- and fear of weakening NATO no longer deters politicians, as the fight over the Libya campaign has made clear. We don't know how much longer voters here will support an alliance in which the United States shoulders 75 percent of the military spending and a much higher percentage of the fighting.
Europe's leaders need to find some broader vision of their own quickly, or Europeans -- and their American allies -- could pay a huge price.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO (89%); REFUGEES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); DEBTOR NATIONS (74%); BOMBINGS (74%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (93%); GREECE (79%); DENMARK (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1078 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Dodd-Frank Rekindles Old Debate

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
One of the most classic American political debates -- state versus federal law -- is surfacing again in the banking sector, as regulators work to put in place the financial reforms passed a year ago in Washington.
At issue is whether state banking regulators will be undercut by their federal counterparts when it comes to consumer financial protection laws. Banks, state regulators and consumer advocates have been sparring in legalese-filled comment letters over the last month in response to rules proposed by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks.
Even the Treasury Department has criticized the comptroller's rules and sided with state officials, saying the rules do not hew closely enough to the Dodd-Frank legislation intended to rein in Wall Street. 
A portion of the Dodd-Frank legislation is dedicated to pre-emption, the ability of federal law to trump state laws. Banks, consumer groups and states are now arguing over what the intent of the legislation was.
The comptroller, meanwhile, said that for the most part, the Dodd-Frank bill did not change the office's power to pre-empt state laws when it comes to regulating national banks. The states contend that the bill gives them new power to avoid pre-emption in some cases.
The issue is a hot one because some consumer advocates say that financial companies were able to get away with lax lending standards and predatory behavior during the surge in home sales before 2008 in part because the lenders could claim that more restrictive state rules did not apply to them.
Banks, on the other hand, say it is more efficient for them to follow national rules as the industry has consolidated and added customers in many states.
The comptroller has been criticized since the financial crisis for often siding with bank-friendly policies, and the office's critics point to the recently proposed rules on pre-emption as a sign that the regulator has not changed.
''There is extreme consternation in the consumer community that the O.C.C. is continuing to side with banks over consumers to a considerable extent,'' said Paul Bland, a senior staff lawyer who works on consumer banking cases at the law firm Public Justice, referring to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
''A clear message of the Dodd-Frank law,'' he said, ''was that Congress felt that federal regulators, especially the O.C.C., had not been sufficiently aggressive in dealing with advertising by banks. And, because state banks and state regulators were so much more favorable to consumers, Congress wanted to free state regulators from the O.C.C.'s grasp. In these proposals the O.C.C. is very close to trying to pretend that the Dodd-Frank act never passed.''
The comptroller gained expanded oversight responsibilities in the Dodd-Frank law last year, when the Office of Thrift Supervision was shut down, and some of its rules proposed in May applied to merging parts of those two regulators. The regulator is working under an acting director and awaiting the nomination of a permanent leader.
The comments on its proposed rules were due on Monday, and at least 24 were received, including some from Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase & Company and Citigroup.
A spokesman for the comptroller's office, Bryan Hubbard, declined to discuss the comments and said there was no timeline for the comptroller to finish evaluating them. ''We will be carefully reviewing all comments we've received as we move toward a final rule,'' he said.
New York State's new Financial Services Department was one of the strongest critics of the proposed rules, arguing in its comment letter that the rules would ''narrow and hamper the application of state consumer protection laws.''
Created this year, the New York department could prove to be a thorn in the side of federal regulators because so many financial companies are based in the state. The department, an amalgam of the state's old insurance and banking divisions, is being led by one of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's most trusted advisers, Benjamin M. Lawsky. He helped manage many of the cases against banks filed by Mr. Cuomo when he was New York's attorney general.
In an interview, Mr. Lawsky said that the comptroller was trying to ''hinder the intent of Dodd-Frank.''
Mr. Lawsky added: ''We think it's important for consumers and for the financial service industry writ large for the states to continue their vital role. The importance of the states as regulators has been on display the last several years.''
In particular, Mr. Lawsky wrote, the comptroller is trying to use an overly broad definition to determine whether it can overrule a state law and ignoring a mandate to review state consumer laws on a case-by-case basis. He also says that the comptroller is trying to ignore a provision of Dodd-Frank that would allow state attorneys general to enforce federal laws as well as state laws.
Several banks, however, wrote letters supporting the comptroller's proposals. Citibank wrote, ''It would be extremely difficult for these banks to stay current on all state and local laws that could possibly apply to them across the United States, to be certain which ones would cover their activities, and to attempt to comply with such a multiplicity of different -- and potentially inconsistent -- requirements.''
Wells Fargo wrote that the comptroller's confirmation of a 1996 Supreme Court ruling on pre-emption helped support a ''robust national banking system.'' The implications of that case, though, remain in dispute, and the National Association of Attorneys General wrote in a comment letter that the comptroller's office was basing its proposed rules too heavily on that case and not enough on the intent of Dodd-Frank.
Beyond supporting the comptroller's proposed rules, JPMorgan made suggestions to try to protect itself from state laws that might hinder the bank's ability to lend money or demand collateral. JPMorgan also said that it supported the positive comments by the Clearing House, a bank-owned company that handles payments within the financial system. The Clearing House asserted that ''any suggestion that federal pre-emption has encouraged predatory lending practices or somehow led to the subprime crisis is baseless and incorrect.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Benjamin M. Lawsky (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1079 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: New York Court Permits Banks To Sue MBIA

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
UBS, Bank of America and about a dozen other banks won reinstatement of a lawsuit against MBIA challenging the 2009 revamping of its insurance unit that guaranteed bad debt.
The state Court of Appeals in Albany, New York's highest court, announced its decision Tuesday, overturning a lower court ruling. 
A state appellate court in January dismissed the suit by the banks, which claimed the bond insurer's overhaul had been intended to defraud policyholders. The banks claim the revamping was a ''fraudulent conveyance'' that left MBIA undercapitalized and possibly unable to pay future claims.
The Court of Appeals decision, in a 5-to-2 vote, turned on whether approval of the split by the state insurance superintendent had precluded the bank policyholders' claims.
''We hold that the superintendent's approval of such restructuring pursuant to its authority under the Insurance Law does not bar the policyholders from bringing these claims,'' Judge Carmen Beauchamp Ciparick wrote for the majority.
The decision restored the banks' claims of fraudulent conveyance, breach of contract and abuse of the corporate form. The court agreed with the lower court that a claim for unjust enrichment should be dismissed.
The banks said in court filings that the split had transferred $5 billion in cash and securities out of MBIA's primary operating unit, the MBIA Insurance Corporation, to another entity, now known as the National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation.
The insurer argued that the restructuring had been done to help unfreeze the public finance markets during the financial crisis and had been approved by state regulators after an extensive review that found MBIA Insurance would remain solvent and have sufficient resources to meet claims, according to a brief filed in April with the Albany court.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); APPEALS (90%); APPROVALS (88%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (73%); CONTRACTS LAW (73%); INSURANCE LAW (73%)

COMPANY: MBIA INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MBIA INSURANCE CORP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (58%)

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1080 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Lenders Take Step Into Riskier Deals

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
The market for commercial real estate loans is coming back, but already some industry professionals are warning that risky practices that were common in the recent boom are returning.
An increasing number of financial institutions are vying to make loans on commercial real estate now. But many buildings are still drowning under heavy debt loads, leaving few properties that can support new borrowing. This means that banks, insurance companies, hedge funds and others are competing fiercely to underwrite the few viable loans that are available. Because of the competition, some lenders have begun to compromise their underwriting standards, say ratings agencies and market professionals.
''We are deeply concerned,'' said Tad Philipp, the director of commercial real estate research for Moody's Investors Service. ''Underwriting standards have gone from very good in 2010, to just O.K. this year, and we want to make sure they don't drift into risky territory.'' 
Commercial loans are big business. At the peak of the market, in 2007, commercial mortgage-backed securities, which are bonds backed by pools of commercial real estate loans, were a $243 billion market, according to the research company Trepp. The market then stalled and reached a nadir in 2009 with only $2.4 billion in issuance. The market began to thaw last year and 12 deals totaling $12.6 billion were completed. Most of the loans underwritten last year consisted of top properties in prime markets, where there was very little risk of default.
This year, the deals have picked up significantly. So far, there have been 16 deals for $16.8 billion, Trepp said. Some of these deals include properties in Oklahoma and Kansas, and even hard-hit markets like Florida and California. Some of the assets are also less stable, with lenders underwriting deals for mobile home parks and self-storage units.
At the same time, metrics used to judge possible defaults are indicating more risk. Increasingly, appraisers are taking into consideration higher future rents and occupancy rates, rather than using only current figures. Inflated appraisals were common during the market peak but disappeared after the crash. There are also more interest-only loans, where the borrower pays interest on the loan but does not pay down the principal, with a large balloon payment due at the end of the term.
Appraisers say their figures are not inflated, but rather reflect the improving market in some areas of the country. ''It is important to point out that commercial real estate is a two-tier market: there are distressed properties and markets and premier properties and markets,'' said Leslie Sellers, the 2010 president of the Appraisal Institute, an industry group that has more than 24,000 members. Appraisers are accounting for a rosier future in only those top-tier markets, he said. ''If we didn't do that, we would be remiss.''
A sharp increase in the number of commercial real estate lenders is mostly driving the surge in mortgage-backed securities. Large banks like Bank of America, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs have resurrected their commercial mortgage-backed securities, also known as C.M.B.S., lending again after the downturn, while new players have also entered the market, like Cantor Fitzgerald and the hedge fund giant Citadel.
''Banks need to generate earnings, but they aren't underwriting many new mortgages or other loans, so securitization is a very attractive option,'' said K. C. Conway, the executive managing director of real estate analytics at Colliers International.
Insurance companies and foreign investors are also lending as they look to rotate into hard assets and out of cash and other investments that are vulnerable to inflation, Mr. Conway said. In the search for hard assets, the commercial real estate market is attractive because it is widely perceived to have bottomed out.
Yet there are only a relatively small number of properties that are not highly leveraged and in a position to borrow funds. According to Trepp, over one trillion dollars' worth of commercial real estate loans due in the next five years are still underwater, meaning the market value of the properties is less than their debt.
''It is the classic scenario of too many dollars chasing too few deals,'' said Peter J. Mignone, a partner at the New York office of the law firm SNR Denton.
With so few opportunities, lenders are facing multiple pressures. To create bonds, they must pool together several commercial loans, but with so few strong borrowers, ''their only choice is to leave the primary markets and look to the secondary and even tertiary markets to fill up these loan pools,'' said Lawrence J. Longua, a clinical associate professor at the Schack Institute of Real Estate at New York University.
At the same time, these lenders have built infrastructure and need to put their capital to work. ''A critical mass is needed to justify the C.M.B.S. platforms they have built, so they may be willing to look at making riskier loans if that is what is available,'' Mr. Longua said.
So far, the deals being underwritten today are consistent with the types of deals seen in 2004, according to research by Moody's. That year ''was one of the last normalized years before the aggressive underwriting began to ramp up,'' Mr. Philipp said, ''so we are right at the inflection point.''
Underwriters are also coming up with novel structures. For example, in a deal led by Deutsche Bank and UBS, the management of the Crystal Gateway Marriott in Virginia is set to receive a fee if it meets certain profit requirements.
While this so-called incentive management fee is not striking on its own, it is to be paid first, ahead of the debt service. Standard & Poor's called this ''highly unusual'' in a recent research note.
There are have also been several commercial mortgage-backed securities deals underwritten in the past year where the leases expire before the loans come due.
This leaves the buildings vulnerable to the possibility of losing rental income. At 7 Hanover Square in lower Manhattan, for example, the Guardian Life Insurance Company of America occupies nearly the entire building, and its lease expires in 2019, but the loan does not come due until 2021.
A loan for 660 Madison Avenue has a similar structure. The building is fully occupied by Barneys New York, but its lease expires 18 months before the loan matures. In addition, Standard & Poor's has a low rating for the company and says it is as risk of a downgrade.
''If lenders are going to be aggressive, there should be a really good reason, and not just to win a lending assignment,'' Mr. Mignone said. ''If you have a few lenders who choose to be aggressive, then their competitors' only alternatives are to also be aggressive or to close their checkbooks. This is when you risk having a race to the bottom.''
But while there are examples of eroding underwriting standards, more safety measures now exist than before the downturn. For example, there are more interest-only loans, but many are for short periods and not the entire life of the loan.
And while some leases expire before the bonds mature, many include safety provisions like agreements with tenants to renew their leases or requirements to post letters of credit as collateral.
''On balance, it is true that the deals are less conservative now, but as a result, we are on the path to do $30 billion in C.M.B.S. deals this year, versus just $12 billion,'' said Thomas A. Fink, a senior vice president and managing director at Trepp.
Still, said Barbara Duka, a managing director at Standard & Poor's, ''what has surprised us is the speed at which the metrics have gone from very conservative to much less so.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: K. C. Conway, executive managing director at Colliers International, says many investors want hard assets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KENDRICK BRINSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Gaining Steam: Trepp, a private analytics company, expects $30 billion in commercial mortgage-backed securities to be issued this year. (Source: Trepp LLC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (93%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (76%); INSURANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SELF STORAGE (71%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%); TRAILER PARKS (50%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1081 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Elected in Miami-Dade County Runoff

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
MIAMI -- Three months after the previous Miami-Dade County mayor was recalled, Carlos Gimenez, a former city manager, fire chief and county commissioner, was elected to replace him on Tuesday in a runoff race that drew meager voter enthusiasm. 
Mr. Gimenez defeated former Mayor Julio Robaina of Hialeah, who outspent his opponent and entered the race with higher name recognition. With the vast majority of precincts reporting by 10 p.m., Mr. Gimenez was ahead 51 percent to 49 percent. Mr. Robaina had conceded the race an hour earlier.
As predicted, voter turnout was light, with about 16 percent of Miami's 1.2 million voters casting ballots. The new mayor will begin his job quickly; Tuesday's election results are expected to be certified on Friday. Two weeks later, the mayor must deliver his budget for the coming year.
Mr. Gimenez also will face re-election in August 2012, a consequence of the fact that the former mayor was removed from office in a recall election in March.
In the end, Mr. Gimenez, 57, who resigned from his county commission seat to run for mayor, was viewed as the safer choice: a man whose broad government experience would allow him to better navigate the county's financial and political turbulence.
In a county that had become exhausted by corruption scandals, Mr. Gimenez also persuaded voters he would stand above the fray.
Throughout the campaign, Mr. Robaina had to contend with a continuing federal grand jury investigation into whether he skirted income taxes on money he earned from loans to friends and business associates. He also had to deal with questions regarding his relationship with the convicted operator of a Ponzi scheme.
''Robaina is corrupt,'' said Gloria Turkel, 51, who grew up in Hialeah and now lives in Pinecrest, part of Mr. Gimenez's district when he was a commissioner. ''We don't want more of the same.''
Both men portrayed themselves as the antidote to Carlos Alvarez, the former county mayor who raised property taxes, gave raises to some of his top aides and negotiated salary increases for county workers. Irate voters, who also grew to dislike his push to build a new baseball stadium, removed him in a recall election in March.
As a commissioner, Mr. Gimenez was often at odds with Mr. Alvarez and opposed both the stadium and the way the budget was being handled. Mr. Gimenez took shots at Mr. Robaina for his past favorable remarks about the stadium and for Hialeah's 17.3 percent unemployment rate.
The two men wound up in Tuesday's runoff election after neither broke the 50 percent mark in May in a field of 11 candidates. In that election, Mr. Robaina won 34 percent of the vote and Mr. Gimenez had 29 percent.
On Tuesday it was clear that Mr. Gimenez had won over many of the voters who cast ballots for the other candidates in the earlier election.
Still, some voters said the election typified the disenchantment that people feel toward county government in general.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carlos Gimenez celebrated his mayoral victory Tuesday night in Miami in a runoff election that drew light voter turnout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILFREDO LEE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (92%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (87%); CORRUPTION (86%); DISMISSALS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); BASEBALL (73%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); SCANDALS (65%); PROPERTY TAX (64%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%); GRAND JURY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (97%) FLORIDA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1082 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Dodgers and M.L.B. Compromise on Financing

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS; Rita K. Farrell contributed reporting from Wilmington, Del.

 BODY:
The power struggle between the owner of the Los Angeles Dodgers and Major League Baseball ended in a temporary truce Tuesday as the parties agreed to let the team accept interim financing from an outside lender, and removed a key requirement tying the loan to a sale of the Dodgers' future television rights.
The compromise, which was approved by Judge Kevin Gross in United States Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Del., will allow the Dodgers to pay their day-to-day expenses one day after the team filed for bankruptcy protection. The parties will reappear in court July 20, when the judge will reconsider the loan arrangement. 
The team was in court to ask the judge to approve $60 million of a $150 million loan to pay its bills over the next month. But the league asked Gross to reject the loan, arguing that the team's owner, Frank McCourt, was using the case to circumvent league rules and further his personal interests. The league instead offered its own loan that it claimed was on better terms, with a 7 percent interest rate compared to 10 percent -- a move that was immediately rejected by McCourt as a ploy to remove him as owner.
One of the major sticking points between the two parties has been the team's sale of its future television rights. Last week, Commissioner Bud Selig rejected a cable television deal between the Dodgers and Fox that was valued as high as $3 billion, a move that McCourt claims forced him to file for bankruptcy.
Under the terms of the $150 million interim loan from Highbridge Capital Management, McCourt would have had 180 days to initiate a ''competitive sale process'' for the broadcast rights. Baseball's proposed loan, in addition to offering lower interest rates and no fees, would have removed any timeline for selling the rights.
Now that auctioning the television rights is not a condition of the loan, McCourt will have a tougher case to make if he wants to persuade the judge to let him do so, said Marc Ganis, the president of Sportscorp Limited, a sports business consulting firm. ''What he gave up today was actually quite meaningful,'' he said. ''This was actually a big win for baseball today.''
Rob Manfred, executive vice president of Major League Baseball, agreed, calling the requirement to auction the rights ''the most objectionable part'' of McCourt's financing proposal. And he noted that another lender will now pay the team's bills for the next month.
''When somebody else writes a check for 60 million, it's not necessarily a bad result,'' Manfred said.
But Bruce Bennett, the lawyer for the Dodgers, said he was happy with the outcome of the hearing, noting the team was granted its choice of lender and avoided having to borrow money from the league.
Baseball will have another chance to present its loan to the court for approval at the hearing in July.
The dispute between McCourt and baseball has been unusually heated. While McCourt has claimed that he was forced into bankruptcy because Selig rejected his deal with Fox, Selig has said McCourt caused the problem by diverting millions of dollars in team funds for his personal use. Revelations about lavish personal spending by McCourt and his wife, Jamie, became public during their contentious divorce, which is still under way.
The angry rhetoric continued in court filings Tuesday. In objecting to the Highbridge loan, the league accused McCourt of siphoning more than $100 million in club revenues and of being ''obviously unable to properly distinguish between his personal interests and those of the club.''
The Dodgers, in turn, accused Selig of harboring a ''deep-seated animus'' toward McCourt and calling the league an ''avowed adversary.'' Baseball's offer of a loan, McCourt's lawyers argued, ''is nothing other than a thinly-veiled effort to take total control over the debtors and these cases.''
McCourt said baseball's loan would have given Selig too much control over the team's budget and would require the Dodgers to pay for all of the league's legal and professional fees related to the case.
Although McCourt may have lost a key bargaining chip Tuesday, he did not walk away empty-handed, Ganis said. ''He was desperate -- he needed the cash to make the payroll,'' he said. ''He basically put off the hangman's noose for another 30 days.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); JUDGES (89%); APPROVALS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); LAWYERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1083 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: An Indiana Town Tries to Lure Renters With Ballpark Views

BYLINE: By JAMIE DUFFY

 BODY:
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -- One of the quirks that endears Wrigley Field in Chicago to baseball fans are the rooftop views from houses on Waveland Avenue beyond left field. Now, developers in this city are hoping to bottle a little of that magic as part of an ambitious downtown renovation plan.
The Harrison, a four-story rental apartment building with 42 one- and two-bedroom units, will have balconies overlooking Parkview Field, the home of the Fort Wayne TinCaps, a minor-league team named for the headgear worn by John Chapman, a k a Johnny Appleseed, who is reportedly buried in this city of about 250,000 in northeast Indiana.
''It's entirely conceivable you could catch a home run sometime,'' said Jason Freier, the chief executive of Hardball Capital of Atlanta and the owner and managing partner of the 6,100-seat, $31 million stadium that opened in April 2009. ''It would take a heck of a shot, but there have been balls hit over the condominium site already.'' 
The $110 million redevelopment effort, called Harrison Square, so far includes the ballpark, a brand-new Marriott Courtyard hotel and a 900-space parking garage; and skywalks to connect the Marriott and an existing Hilton hotel to the expanded Grand Wayne Convention Center, which will host the 2012 state Democratic convention.
But the Harrison, a 100,000-square-foot structure that will also have space for retail stores and offices, has been stalled by the recession and the inability to get financing. On June 13, a little more than two years after it was supposed to be finished, Mayor Tom C. Henry announced a private-public partnership that will finance the $18 million building.
''We started that last leg at the worst possible time,'' said Mayor Henry, a Democrat who is running for re-election this year. ''When the economy took a nose dive is when we needed everything put together. Once the needle began to point upward, banks started to get a little more generous.''
In the end, the project was awarded to PNC Bank of Pittsburgh, which will be responsible for about $8 million. The remaining money will be provided by others in the partnership, including Barry Real Estate of Atlanta and two local developers, Mark Hagerman of Hagerman Construction and Simon Dragan of Whitley Manufacturing Company, who will provide ''north of $1 million each,'' Mr. Henry said.
Hardball Capital will put $950,000 into the project via incremental payments while at the same time committing to $1 million worth of improvements to the ballpark over the next decade.
The public component consists of $4 million to $6 million in state and federal tax credits that can be sold.
''We also think that getting this project done is good for the city, and what's good for the city is also important for us,'' said Mr. Freier of Hardball. He and others credit Graham Richard, the city's mayor from 2000 to 2008, with bringing the project from concept to reality.
''When I came here, we didn't have an aggressive downtown development plan,'' said Mr. Richard, a Democrat who now is in private business and has a downtown office ''within eyesight'' of Harrison Square. ''We didn't have what I'd call an infrastructure that was attractive.''
The project was approved in April 2007. The property consisted of parking lots and old rental homes, Mr. Richard said, and once the blueprint was set down, the land was acquired in 18 months without resorting to eminent domain.
At the same time, Hardball Capital was looking to acquire the 15-year-old minor league ballpark on the north side of town and the team, then known as the Fort Wayne Wizards.
Mr. Freier, whose company also owns the Savannah Sand Gnats, said he wanted a new ball field that could be used for other sporting and local events. ''You couldn't get a semi truck out on the playing field,'' said Mr. Richard, ''so you couldn't do rock concerts.''
The comfortable, retro-looking ballpark, built with Indiana sandstone and red brick, can be expanded to accommodate up to 8,000 people. In addition to concerts it is the site of N.C.A.A. Division I baseball and soccer games and local events like walk-a-thons and family movie nights using the Jumbotron. A ticket on game day can cost as little as $5, officials said.
Last Sept. 1, the 250-room Marriott Courtyard hotel and a 900-space parking garage opened, both of them overlooking Parkview Field. The $30 million undertaking by White Lodging, a Merrillville, Ind. real estate firm specializing in hotels, more than doubled the number of hotel rooms within walking distance of the convention center. The mayor and Mr. Richard like to boast that the Indiana State Democratic Convention has scheduled its 2012 convention in Fort Wayne because there are finally enough rooms to accommodate 2,000 convention-goers.
''It has not been outside Indianapolis for 80 years,'' Mr. Henry said.
Those convention revelers will be able to enjoy an enhanced downtown. The new skywalks link the hotels to the convention center, and one links the Marriott to the historic Embassy Theater. The Fort Wayne Botanical Gardens are less than a block away, and other nearby attractions within walking distance are the city art museum and public library, a history museum and the Allen County Courthouse, a 1902 Beaux Arts architectural gem designated a national historic landmark in 2003.
The Harrison will have 25,000 square feet of retail space at street level and the same amount of office space on the second floor. Barry Real Estate said it had lined up Three Rivers Federal Credit Union and O'Reilly's Irish Bar & Restaurant, an Indianapolis-based chain, for 6,000 square feet so far. Carson Boxberger, a local law firm, has leased the second floor.
The challenge now will be luring younger singles and retired people to live in a downtown that is roomy and clean but somewhat unexciting, said Craig Klugman, the editor of The Journal Gazette, Fort Wayne's morning daily newspaper. The Harrison is projected to be completed by March 2013.
''I think if they price them right, there will be a certain market for people who want to live downtown,'' said Mr. Klugman, who said he thought the relatively easy commute of most downtown workers made it more difficult to attract renters.
Mr. Henry said city leaders were working hard to make downtown Fort Wayne ''a point of destination for people.''
''You know Fort Wayne is in the Midwest,'' he said. ''We don't have the mountains of the West. We don't have the oceans of the coast. We decided that downtown is what that destination should be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Graham Richard, the former mayor of Fort Wayne, Ind., helped start the city's $110 million downtown rejuvenation that revolves around Parkview Field, a minor league park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SWIKAR PATEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); MAYORS (86%); SPORTS FANS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (77%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); RETAILERS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%)

COMPANY: WHITLEY MANUFACTURING CO (62%); PNC BANK NA (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS321991 MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2451 MOBILE HOMES (62%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT WAYNE, IN, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (95%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1084 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: No More Silent Summers

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
Of all the milestones in Alan Gilbert's career, including his first program as music director of the New York Philharmonic in September 2009, no performance made him more visibly excited than the concert he conducted with the Philharmonic in Central Park on a balmy summer night in 2008.
Looking out on the Great Lawn at the crowd, which the police estimated at 63,000, Mr. Gilbert said: ''I love the New York Philharmonic, I love New York, I love Central Park and I love the Philharmonic's concerts in the parks.''
This was only his second performance conducting a parks concert in New York, the first having come the night before at Prospect Park in Brooklyn. And as Mr. Gilbert explained to the Central Park gathering, some of his earliest memories of classical music were formed when he was a little boy in New York, tagging along with his parents, both violinists in the Philharmonic, for some inspiring parks concerts. During intermissions he would hang out in the makeshift tent set up for the players and help himself to cookies and soda. Mr. Gilbert understands in a directly personal way why these free concerts, which the orchestra has presented since 1965, mean so much to New Yorkers and do so much to demystify classical music. 
So it is surprising that he is on board with the Philharmonic's disappointing decision to cancel the parks tour this summer. Longtime supporters of the ensemble may question aspects of Mr. Gilbert's conducting or his overall work with the orchestra so far. But he has embraced the outreach and education responsibilities of the music director's job and proved himself a natural at it. With orchestras across America buckling under challenges from the poor economy, it is more crucial than ever to entice new audiences. This would seem the worst time to forgo what has become a beloved New York summer ritual.
In an article in The New York Times on Tuesday, Zarin Mehta, the Philharmonic's president and chief executive, was quoted as saying that the parks tour was dropped to make way for other projects, including a memorial concert to commemorate the 10th anniversary of 9/11. On Sept. 10 at Avery Fisher Hall, Mr. Gilbert will conduct a free performance of Mahler's ''Resurrection'' Symphony, which will be broadcast live on radio, projected on a screen in Lincoln Center Plaza and taped for rebroadcast the next night, Sept. 11, on PBS.
''For me the most important element was not the parks, but to do something on the 10th of September,'' Mr. Mehta said. This was, he added, ''the most important gesture.''
Memorializing the day of the terrorist attacks with the ''Resurrection'' Symphony will of course be meaningful and reach an enormous television audience. But in addition to the free Mahler concert, the Philharmonic is serving as the backup orchestra for a free concert in Central Park on Sept. 15, conducted by Mr. Gilbert and featuring the popular tenor Andrea Bocelli. This concert will include a PBS broadcast that will be made into a CD and a DVD. As Mr. Mehta put it, this project makes ''good economic sense'' for the Philharmonic.
In this context, between the worthy 9/11 memorial and the unabashedly commercial Bocelli concerts, maybe a parks tour this summer would have made little economic sense. And there were logistical problems about scheduling these fall events that led to the cancellation of the tour. Mr. Mehta emphasized that it would return in 2012, so missing a single summer may not be that significant.
Still, it makes another ''gesture,'' to borrow Mr. Mehta's phrase: namely, that the parks concerts are expendable. And that worries me.
When the Metropolitan Opera, which had presented concert performances of complete operas in the parks since 1967, decided to stop its tours in 2008, there were some anguished complaints from music lovers and critics. But by and large the Met was given a pass on this decision for several reasons. For one, a concert performance of an opera is not quite the equivalent of a symphonic program.
And the Met's parks concerts, though popular, seldom attracted the numbers of people that the Philharmonic's programs did, especially in the boroughs outside Manhattan. A significant exception came in 2008, when, in lieu of the parks tour, the Met presented a single, well-promoted concert featuring the soprano Angela Gheorghiu and the tenor Roberto Alagna in Prospect Park in Brooklyn. It drew an audience of 50,000 (doubling the previous attendance record for a concert in that park: Patti LaBelle's audience of 25,000).
Also, under Peter Gelb, the Met has made its HD broadcasts in movie theaters internationally the most important element of its extensive outreach efforts. Starting on Aug. 27, the Met will again present a popular 10-day festival of free HD screenings in Lincoln Center Plaza. (The Met also presents a series of summer recitals in smaller sites in parks around the city, which are pleasant events that attract modest audiences.)
But the Philharmonic has built an understandably loyal following for its concerts in the parks. That the orchestra leaves Lincoln Center to bring its music to the boroughs is central to what has made these concerts so special. And the quality of amplification improved dramatically in 1990 when the Carlos Moseley Music Pavilion, a portable stage and elaborate sound system, was introduced. Since 2005 a new setup from Mobile Stage Rentals has been used. Of course, no one attends these concerts for high-grade sound reproduction. This is a chance to experience classical music amid the greenery and comfort of an urban park and to bond with fellow New Yorkers.
The quality of the music making is often excellent. For that 2008 Central Park concert, Mr. Gilbert was joined by the superstar pianist Lang Lang in Tchaikovsky's First Piano Concerto. Mr. Gilbert drew just about the most cogent playing I have heard from the often self-indulgent, flashy Mr. Lang.
After intermission, rather than conducting a symphonic chestnut, Mr. Gilbert led a crisp, lively account of Beethoven's Fourth Symphony, probably the least-heard Beethoven symphony. He ended with a soaring rendition of Sibelius's ''Finlandia,'' followed by an encore: Rossini's ''William Tell'' Overture, selected from two options offered to attendees, who voted via text messages.
Mr. Gilbert's predecessor, Lorin Maazel, may have been a formidable conductor, but he had scant interest in outreach and education, and minimal involvement with the parks concerts. Mr. Gilbert, on the other hand, is a born proselytizer for classical music who makes helpful comments to audiences when he is about to conduct an unusual or challenging piece and has the players illustrate his points with excerpts.
He was especially impressive when he led the Philharmonic in a series of School Day concerts in February. The day I attended, Avery Fisher Hall was packed with eager children from the city's schools. To those youngsters, Mr. Gilbert, with his boyishness and enthusiasm, must have come across as a cool big brother, not some intimidating maestro.
It is obviously too late to bring back the parks tour for this summer, which is a shame. The Philharmonic originally had plans to present some parks concerts in conjunction with the Mahler memorial program, but this fell by the wayside. But New York music lovers should hold the Philharmonic to its word that the parks concerts will return in 2012.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alan Gilbert leading the New York Philharmonic at a Central Park concert in July 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
 The audience on the Great Lawn in Central Park at a Philharmonic concert in June 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); MUSIC (91%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); TERRORISM (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1085 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Home Prices Rose in April, Lifted by Spring Buying Season

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER

 BODY:
Finally, perhaps some good news on housing values.
On Tuesday, the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller index, a closely watched measure of home prices, posted a rise for April, the first in eight months. 
The index increased 0.7 percent, reflecting increases in prices in 13 of the 20 cities tracked. That compared with a 0.8 percent decline in March, when the index hit a new low.
But analysts said it was unclear that a sustained rebound in the housing market was under way, noting that sales were typically stronger in the spring.
David M. Blitzer, the chairman of the index committee at S.& P. Indices, called the April increase a welcome shift from previous months. ''However, the seasonally adjusted numbers show that much of the improvement reflects the beginning of the spring-summer home buying season,'' he added in a statement. ''It is much too early to tell if this is a turning point or simply due to some warmer weather.''
When seasonally adjusted figures are used, the index shows a less broad improvement.
''For a real recovery, we would need to see several months of increasing home prices, large enough to shift the annual momentum to the positive side,'' Mr. Blitzer said. ''In short, better news, but still a lot of questions and a long way to go.''
Only seven cities experienced lower prices, compared with 18 in March, the statement said. But six metropolitan areas were at their lowest levels in nearly four years: Charlotte, N.C., Chicago, Detroit, Las Vegas, Miami and Tampa, Fla.
The index is also lower than it was a year ago, down 4 percent compared with April 2010.
Analysts are watching the housing sector closely as they try to gauge the pace of the economic recovery. Housing prices fell sharply in late 2006 and continued to stay low until 2009, when the market appeared to turn as a government tax credit took hold. But after the tax credit expired in 2010, the price declines resumed.
Some analysts said the latest data indicated that the rate at which prices were falling had slowed and that the market had reached a point where things were not getting worse.
Seasonally adjusted data for April showed a 0.1 percent decline, a fact noted by Stan Humphries, chief economist for the housing site Zillow, in a blog post on the Case-Shiller report.
''The good news is that the monthly decline in the index is getting smaller,'' he wrote. ''The housing market is healing naturally now, but unfortunately we are still years away from seeing normal appreciation rates.''
Paul Dales of Capital Economics said he believed that prices would edge lower at a modest rate before finding a floor in 2012.
''The speed of the downturn has certainly slowed in the last few months,'' Mr. Dales said. ''I am not necessarily convinced that it is over yet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (96%); REAL ESTATE (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CITIES (71%)

COMPANY: ZILLOW INC (51%)

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (78%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1086 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: A Union Plan For Financing Construction

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. said it would announce on Wednesday that it intends to work with pension fund managers to ensure that at least $10 billion in union pension money is made available in the next five years to finance infrastructure projects. 
Richard L. Trumka, president of the labor federation, will present the plan at a meeting of the Clinton Global Initiative in Chicago as part of organized labor's effort to get the federal government, banks and money managers to do more to issue bonds or create other mechanisms to finance infrastructure projects.
A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials said they planned to work with Deutsche Bank and other financial institutions in the hope of coming up with hundreds of millions of dollars to retrofit large commercial buildings. Many building owners are hesitating to do such retrofits because they are highly leveraged and do not have the cash to make the investments. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. hopes its $10 billion will provide an incentive for banks and hedge funds to develop financing vehicles to make such projects happen.
''America's construction workers need work and want to work,'' Mr. Trumka will say, according to his prepared remarks, noting that unemployment is 16 percent in the industry. ''Never in modern times has so much construction work needed to be done.''
A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials said they also hoped their plan would help persuade Congress to create a National Infrastructure Bank or a program similar to the expired Build America Bonds program, in which the federal government subsidized bonds issued by states and municipalities to finance bridges, airports or other infrastructure. While labor unions and many Democrats support such measures to create jobs, many Republicans oppose them because they will increase federal spending.
Mr. Trumka also will announce that labor unions plan to invest at least $20 million in the next year in energy-efficient retrofits of commercial, industrial and public buildings. That should not be difficult, federation officials have said, because union funds invested $97 million last year in energy retrofits for public housing.
Mr. Trumka also will say that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and building trades unions will work with community colleges and the government to train 40,000 new apprentices in specialty welding and other skills for energy-efficient projects. They will also seek to train 100,000 midcareer construction workers in new skills.
''The nation has over $2 trillion in infrastructure and social needs, and there is over $3 trillion in public sector pension funds,'' said Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers and the leader of a group of public sector unions in the A.F.L.-C.I.O. that is studying the issue. ''The question is, are there financially prudent ways to invest working men's and women's capital to create jobs and rebuild America's infrastructure?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BOND ISSUES (75%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (51%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (94%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1087 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Debt Limit Dog Days: To succeed, serious negotiations require a serious negotiating partner

 BODY:
Monday's meeting between President Obama and the Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell, was intended to revive the debt-limit talks after Republican negotiators walked out last week, insisting that they won't agree to raise the limit unless Democrats agree to trillions of dollars in deficit reduction -- with no tax increases at all. 
Before the meeting, Mr. McConnell insisted that ''it's time for Washington to take the hit, not the taxpayers.'' While both sides said the talks would continue, there is little sign the Republicans will consider a compromise. The government has barely a month to raise the debt limit or begin to default on its obligations, with potentially disastrous consequences for the economy.
Talking about Washington taking the hit may play well on the hustings, for now. But the truth is that if the Republicans get their way, taxpayers will be the ones to take the hit, as basic services are cut drastically.
Nor will a spending-cuts-only approach fix the deficit. If the Bush tax cuts are extended beyond their expiration at the end of 2012, lost revenue from the cuts -- plus related interest costs -- would account for 45 percent of the projected $11.2 trillion in deficits in this decade.
The Republicans' fierce opposition is even more absurd when you consider the relatively modest tax increases proposed by Democrats.
Ending unnecessary subsides for oil companies would raise $40 billion over 10 years, while a tax accounting change that would also apply mainly to oil companies could raise $72 billion over five years. Getting rid of a tax break for corporate jets would raise about $3 billion. Closing a loophole that allows private-equity money mangers to pay tax at about the lowest rate in the tax code would raise about $20 billion over 10 years.
The Democrats' most ambitious proposal would limit the value of various write-offs for taxpayers making more than $500,000. That could possibly save upwards of $100 billion over a decade. Those are all workable ideas, but they do not add up to much in the context of a deal that is aiming for $2 trillion to $4 trillion in deficit reduction.
The fixation on the deficit has drawn attention away from the far more urgent problem of unemployment. Deficit reduction, done right, requires enactment of a plan for spending cuts and tax increases that can be implemented as the economy recovers.
President Obama needs to do a better job of explaining the stakes to Americans. The Republicans need to put the country's economic interests above their partisan ambitions. There is not a lot of time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); ACCOUNTING (50%); PRIVATE EQUITY (50%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (88%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1088 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Heats Up in Iowa as Obama and Republicans Call

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
BETTENDORF, Iowa -- Republican presidential hopefuls have been thick on the ground in Iowa in recent days, searching for the kind of early voter validation that gave Barack Obama's long-shot candidacy a propulsive lift in 2008.
On Tuesday, President Obama returned to the state that set him on a course to the White House, visiting an aluminum factory here to underline his commitment to creating manufacturing jobs. The political homecoming also served as a not-so-subtle riposte to Representative Michele Bachmann and other Republicans, who have been in Iowa regularly to hammer at his stewardship of the economy. 
''The problems that we developed didn't happen overnight; we're not going to solve them overnight either,'' Mr. Obama said to 400 workers and local officials at a cavernous Alcoa plant in this riverfront town.
The president said this sophisticated factory showed how the United States could regain its edge in manufacturing. The plant, which employs 2,200 and sprawls for a mile along the Mississippi, produces lightweight sheets of aluminum alloy used in Delta rockets, the Airbus A380 jumbo jet and Air Force One.
Mr. Obama does not face a primary challenge in 2012, but Iowa is a hotly contested general-election state, one that he won in 2008 and that Republicans would dearly like to put in their column this time. The president's trip suggested that the White House sees a political imperative to countering the anti-Obama arguments being made here by the parade of Republican candidates and maintaining a presence in the state more than 16 months before Election Day.
On Monday, Mrs. Bachmann, of Minnesota, declared her candidacy in her childhood home town, Waterloo, Iowa, faulting the president for a costly health care overhaul, a weak economy and chronic joblessness. ''We can't afford four more years of Barack Obama,'' she said.
Elsewhere in the state, two other Republicans, Representative Ron Paul of Texas and former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, were campaigning with messages critical of Mr. Obama. Former Speaker Newt Gingrich, on a visit last weekend, talked of the president's economic ''depression.''
And then there is Sarah Palin, the most prominent Republican noncandidate, who visited the town of Pella on Tuesday evening to attend the premiere of ''Undefeated,'' a documentary about her political career. ''It's politics, I guess,'' said Gov. Terry Branstad, a Republican who used a chat with reporters before the president arrived to score a few points. Mr. Branstad criticized the White House's proposals to reduce the federal deficit, singling out a change in the corporate tax code that he said would harm manufacturers like Alcoa.
Mr. Branstad predicted that the economy would be a potent issue, even in Iowa's Republican caucuses, which are typically driven by social issues.
Mr. Branstad seemed to revel in all the Republican visitors, saying, ''This is the time when the campaign is starting to heat up.'' As for the president, he said, ''Obama knows how important Iowa was to his campaign.''
Adding to the chorus of criticism, Representative Bobby Schilling, Republican of Illinois, pronounced the president's record of job creation ''not very good.'' The jobless rate remained above 9 percent, Mr. Schilling said, even after $780 billion in stimulus had been injected into the economy.
''The government can't create jobs,'' said Mr. Schilling, who left his family's pizzeria to move to Washington in 2011. ''It can only create the environment in which businesses will invest the money to create jobs.''
Mr. Obama defended his record, noting that the United States had added 2 million private-sector jobs in the last 15 months, 250,000 of which are in heavy manufacturing. He also said the government was teaming up with industry to retrain workers and speed the development of high-end products.
Though he avoided an overtly partisan tone, Mr. Obama noted dryly that Iowa had seen a lot of politicians come through in recent days, and was likely to see more before next winter's caucuses. On his way to the plant, he indulged in a bit of nostalgia, stopping for lunch at Ross', a restaurant owned by Cynthia Freidhof, a woman he had met at a town-hall-style meeting at the Mississippi Valley Fairgrounds in August 2008.
Mr. Obama expressed confidence that Iowa, where his victory in 2008 set him on a path to winning the Democratic nomination, would stand by him again. ''Iowa, you and I, we go a long way back,'' he said. ''We've got some history together, and together we're going to make some more history for years to come.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama arriving in Moline, Ill.
stopping at a restaurant
 then visiting the Alcoa Davenport Works Factory in Bettendorf, Iowa, where he spoke about the need to create manufacturing jobs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); TAX LAW (60%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%); CORPORATE TAX (50%); NATIONAL DEBT (50%)

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (56%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); TERRY BRANSTAD (78%); SARAH PALIN (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); RON PAUL (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); MICHELE BACHMANN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1089 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: White House-G.O.P. Deal Clears a Trade Pact Hurdle

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM; Steven Greenhouse contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The White House struck a deal with House Republicans Tuesday to reinstate benefits for workers who lose jobs to foreign competition, addressing a major obstacle to consideration of three free trade agreements with South Korea, Colombia and Panama.
Haggling over the modest and obscure benefits program had tied up the trade pacts for months, pitting Democrats concerned about the impact of competition on American workers against Republicans eager to increase foreign trade but loath to increase federal spending on another aid program. 
But the deal does not assure that Congress will pass the pacts, which are crucial ingredients in the Obama administration's recipe for reinvigorating economic growth. Indeed, Republicans quickly said they would continue to insist that the benefits program be considered separately from the trade agreements, a condition Democrats described as unacceptable.
The Obama administration, which had maintained for weeks that it would not submit the trade pacts to Congress until the deadlock was resolved, by Tuesday night found itself defending its new deal as an important step that might lead to a complete resolution.
''As a result of extensive negotiations, we now have an agreement on the underlying terms for a meaningful renewal of a strengthened'' benefits program, the White House spokesman, Jay Carney, said in a statement. Other administration officials hastened to clarify that that deal did not extend to the question of how that agreement might be approved.
Senator Max Baucus, the Democratic chairman of the Finance Committee, said that he would convene a hearing Thursday morning, starting a process that could end with the bills passing into law before the end of summer.
''We think this package can get the support needed to become law,'' Mr. Baucus said. ''American workers and our economy can't afford for us to wait any longer to move forward.''
Senate Republicans, however, said they would seek to strip the benefits program from the legislation by asking the Senate parliamentarian to rule that its inclusion did not comply with Senate rules, because it was not sufficiently related to the main subject of the legislation.
Senator Orrin Hatch, the ranking Republican on the Finance Committee, said that the White House's strategy ''risks support for this critical job-creating trade pact in the name of a welfare program of questionable benefit at a time when our nation is broke.''
John Boehner, the House speaker, said he would hold separate votes on the free trade agreements and the benefits program. That step, even if all four pieces pass, would terminate a special process that allows for the rapid approval of trade agreements, leaving the package much more vulnerable to Senate opposition.
''We have long said that T.A.A. -- even this scaled-back version -- should be dealt with separately from the trade agreements, and that is how we expect to proceed,'' said Brendan Buck, a spokesman for Mr. Boehner, an Ohio Republican, referring to the worker benefit program, Trade Adjustment Assistance.
The trade agreements would eliminate tariffs on the flow of goods and services between the United States and the other countries. The United States has similar agreements with Mexico, Canada and 15 other countries.
The free trade agreement with South Korea could increase annual sales of American goods to that country by up to $10.9 billion, according to a 2007 estimate by a federal agency, the United States International Trade Commission. Dairy products, pork and poultry, chemicals, rubber and plastics are among the goods in greatest demand.
The agreement with Colombia, a much smaller trading partner, would create annual demand for about $1.1 billion in American goods, the agency estimated. It said the impact of the Panama agreement would be even smaller. It did not provide an estimate.
''For members of Congress who care about American jobs, this is a moment of truth,'' said Thomas J. Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, which is starting a lobbying campaign in support of the deals, including the creation of a Web site that shows a detailed picture of exports from each Congressional district.
But the trade agreements also are likely to put some Americans out of work as cheaper imports from the three countries undermine existing American manufacturers. The deals have been rewritten to protect American companies and workers, in part by insisting on better workplace conditions in those countries to minimize their advantage.
''We're ramping up our outreach to members of Congress, member of unions and members of the public to make sure we have a full and honest debate about what these trade agreements will mean,'' said Thea Lee, chief international economist at the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
The South Korea deal will lead to losses of manufacturing jobs, she said. ''Colombia, there is of course continuing concern about violence against union leaders and members. On Panama, there are still concerns about labor law reform and the tax haven status.''
Democratic lawmakers who share these concerns insisted on the expansion of worker benefits.
The aid program, created in the 1960s, was expanded in 2009 as part of economic stimulus legislation to offer broader benefits and to include workers in service industries as well as manufacturing. But the expansion lapsed in January.
The deal reached Tuesday would offer benefits for the current year and the next two years, at a level between the old program and the 2009 version. For example, the government historically paid 65 percent of workers' health care premiums, which was increased to 80 percent in 2009. If the deal is approved, the government would now pay 73 percent.
And the program will once again include service workers, a goal of the White House negotiating team led by Gene Sperling, director of the National Economic Council.
Representative Dave Camp, the Michigan Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, won a reduction in the program's annual budget to $575 million from $1 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kia vehicles at the port of Pyeongtaek, South Korea. The United States has a free trade agreement pending with South Korea. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEONGJOON CHO/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); PANAMA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1090 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: France's Finance Minister, Lagarde, Selected as I.M.F. Managing Director

BYLINE: By LIZ ALDERMAN

 BODY:
PARIS -- Christine Lagarde on Tuesday became the first woman to be appointed to the helm of the International Monetary Fund, taking on one of the most powerful positions in global finance as a worsening crisis in Greece threatens the euro currency union and rattles financial markets worldwide.
Her victory was sealed when the U.S. Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said the United States would endorse her over the Mexican central bank governor Agustin Carstens -- her only competitor for the job.
''Minister Lagarde's exceptional talent and broad experience will provide invaluable leadership for this indispensable institution at a critical time for the global economy,'' Mr. Geithner said in a statement. 
In a statement, Ms. Lagarde, currently the French finance minister, said she would strive to ensure the I.M.F. remained ''relevant, responsive, effective, and legitimate, to achieve stronger and sustainable growth, macroeconomic stability, and a better future for all.''
As a top official of one of Europe's most powerful economies, Ms. Lagarde has been at the forefront of efforts to contain the European debt crisis, which led Greece, and then Ireland and Portugal, to seek bailouts to help them pay their huge sovereign debts.
A year after Greece secured a rescue package of --110 billion, or about $156 billion at current exchange rates, the country's debt problems have resurfaced with a vengeance, posing profound challenges to the I.M.F., the European Union and the European Central Bank as they try to contain the crisis.
That is no easy task. Global markets have been whipsawed in recent weeks as fears mount that Greece could default on its debts, despite aid from the I.M.F. and its European partners. Many worry about a Lehman Brothers-style chain reaction in financial markets that could break up the euro zone and spark a new crisis at banks and insurance companies in Europe that could spread to some American institutions.
Representatives from emerging markets fought to claim the I.M.F. leadership from Europe, which has produced every managing director since the fund's inception more than 60 years ago. Mr. Carstens argued that Europe needed someone who would bring a fresh pair of eyes to the crisis. But Ms. Lagarde persuaded her backers that the I.M.F. needed a European at the helm to address the Continent's deepening debt problems.
Ms. Lagarde was initially opposed to getting the I.M.F. involved in Greece's rescue, seeing it as a problem that Europe's politicians and policy makers needed to resolve. When the I.M.F. entered the scene last year, Ms. Lagarde took a hard line on Greece, at one point threatening to withdraw financial aid if the country did not respect its engagements to cut spending and raise revenue.
Yet Ms. Lagarde has also come under fire from critics who say she and other senior European policy makers mishandled the situation from the beginning, and are now scrambling to clean up problems of their own making. Mr. Geithner last week chastised Europe for failing to speak with one voice on the Greek crisis.
Simon Tilford, the chief economist of the Center for European Reform in London, said the I.M.F. should never have gotten so deeply involved. ''For the I.M.F. to be devoting so much financial and human capital to try to combat a problem in Europe which is largely political in origin and can only be solved by political agreement is controversial,'' he said. ''It threatens the I.M.F.'s credibility.''
French banks have the largest exposure to Greece -- estimated at --65 billion by the Bank for International Settlements -- of any financial institutions in Europe. France on Monday outlined a plan for domestic banks to give Athens more time to pay back loans as they come due over the next three years. Ms. Lagarde has been a major force in negotiating the bailout for Greece, and at the same time, she has opposed a full-blown restructuring of Greece's debt, pushing instead for a voluntary restructuring by debt holders.
That has raised questions about whether her impartiality on the issue would be clouded as she leads the fund.
''There is a risk that her perceived objectivity will be brought into question because of this,'' Mr. Tilford said. On the other hand, ''it's possible she will come to believe debt restructuring could be in France's interest, and that kicking the can down the road could ultimately cost the French more.''
A person close to Ms. Lagarde said she would aim to lead the I.M.F. even-handedly. ''Before, she was representing one country,'' said the person, who was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter. ''She will now be wearing a different hat, which would free her from certain constraints, and allow her to have a more sound approach.''
Ms. Lagarde will now be overseeing the financial bailouts of three Western European countries, a situation that would have been unthinkable just a few years ago. Historically, the fund has lent to emerging countries with harsh austerity prescriptions that often dealt economies a sharp blow. Egypt last week rejected a $3 billion loan that it had sought from the I.M.F., largely because an angry public did not want to face the fund's onerous requirements to cut spending.
But three years after a financial crisis on Wall Street sent the global economy into a tailspin, Europe is now at the center of the storm. ''The most pressing crisis situation is in Europe right now, so it's defensible that the I.M.F. should have a lot of its eggs in the European basket,'' said Nicolas Veron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a Brussels-based research institute, and a visiting fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington.
Ms. Lagarde, a former top executive at the Chicago-based law firm Baker & McKenzie, is considered a veteran political negotiator who speaks her mind, even when it has put her at odds with her boss, the French president Nicolas Sarkozy. She has nurtured a close personal relationship with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, leading the two women to find common ground on several important policy decisions as the euro crisis unfurled.
She also managed to soothe the concerns of emerging markets leaders by mounting an aggressive charm offensive as she campaigned for the job of I.M.F. chief, visiting Brazil, China, India and Africa in rapid succession in June with pledges to lift those countries' power within the fund -- something they countries have sought for years.
Although emerging markets may be disappointed not to see Mr. Carstens heading the fund, Ms. Lagarde's victory may end up being a better outcome because she ''can twist the arms of European countries that have blocked progress on governance issues,'' said Eswar Shanker Prasad, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who worked at the I.M.F. for 17 years.
Ms. Lagarde plans to start work in Washington on July 5, a French finance ministry spokesman said, and kick off her tenure with a video message and a town hall meeting with I.M.F. employees who have been rocked by the sudden changes at the institution.
As the new I.M.F. managing director, Ms. Lagarde will be taking over at a delicate time, following the resignation last month of Dominique Strauss-Kahn. As she heads to Washington, there is one more hurdle she must overcome. A French court is to decide July 8 if it will investigate whether she abused her authority in a case that resulted in a lucrative payment to a French businessman, Bernard Tapie, in 2007.
Correction: June 30, 2011, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about the appointment of the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, as managing director of the International Monetary Fund misstated the value in dollars of Greece's 110-billion-euro rescue package. It was about $156 billion at Tuesday's exchange rates, not $140 billion.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 30, 2011 Thursday

 CORRECTION:
BUSINESS DAY
An article on Wednesday about the appointment of the French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, as managing director of the International Monetary Fund misstated the value in dollars of Greece's 110-billion-euro rescue package. It was about $156 billion at Tuesday's exchange rates, not $140 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christine Lagarde, the first woman to lead the I.M.F., at the National Assembly in Paris Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES PLATIAU/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); EURO (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); INSURANCE (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (82%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (93%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%) EUROPE (97%); GREECE (94%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1091 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: $8.5 Billion Deal Said to Be Close In Bank Lawsuit

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Bank of America is completing an agreement to pay $8.5 billion to settle claims by investors that purchased mortgage securities that soured when the housing bubble burst, according to people briefed on the deal. It represents what is likely to be the single biggest settlement tied to the subprime mortgage boom and the subsequent financial crisis of 2008.
The settlement would wipe out all of the company's earnings in the first half of this year, and it could also provide a template for deals with other big banks that face tens of billions in similar claims. 
''I think this is huge,'' said Michael Mayo, a bank analyst with Credit Agricole in New York. ''It's about time the industry resolves issues from the financial crisis and focuses more on righting their companies and improving the economy. This is the most significant step since the financial crisis that helps do that.''
The proposed settlement is with a group of more than 20 investors that include the asset managers Pimco, Metropolitan Life and BlackRock, as well as the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Together they hold mortgage-backed securities that represent more than $100 billion in home loans from Bank of America, the nation's biggest bank by assets.
The securities affected by the deal come from Countrywide Financial, the subprime mortgage lender whose practices have come to symbolize the excesses of the housing boom. Bank of America bought Countrywide in 2008.
The settlement goes beyond just the securities owned by these investors, however.
It covers nearly all of $424 billion in mortgages that Countrywide issued, which were then packaged into mortgage bonds. That means that a broader group of investors will share in the proceeds, according to the people who were briefed on the proposed settlement, but were not allowed to speak publicly.
In addition, the deal will require Bank of America to improve its payment collection process by hiring specialists to focus on high-risk loans, and do a better job of tracking whether the bank is adhering to its own internal loan-servicing standards.
The negotiations began last fall but picked up speed in recent weeks as the end of the second quarter approached. For the investors, settling avoids a costly, multi-year legal fight, while Bank of America can clear away one of the biggest clouds hanging over the company.
Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Wells Fargo have the greatest exposure to the legal claims that they bundled troubled home loans and sold them as sound investments. Together, they are likely to absorb roughly 40 percent of the industry's mortgage-related losses.
In a research note, Paul Miller of FBR Capital Markets projected that Bank of America could face a total of $25 billion of losses from the soured mortgages, the most of any of the major banks.
Bank of America has already paid out or set aside about $17 billion. So the settlement would bring the bank's losses in line with those projections.
On Wednesday, the bank is expected to announce plans to set aside even more money, in addition to the $8.5 billion. Those funds will be earmarked to cover future losses on mortgage securities as well as other mortgage-related expenses not covered by the deal disclosed Tuesday. Some of that will be offset by one-time revenue gains.
Other big banks face sizable risks, too. Mr. Miller predicted that Chase could expect losses reaching as much as $11.2 billion. Wells Fargo has potential losses of up to $5.2 billion, while Citigroup could see losses top $3.3 billion.
Once it is approved by Bank of America's board, which met Tuesday, the settlement will require court approval in New York. Bank of America is expected to take a $5 billion after-tax charge in the second quarter to cover the payout.
While the board has yet to approve the settlement, both sides are aiming to have it done as soon as Wednesday, said the people who were briefed on the deal. If successful, the bank hopes to turn investor attention away from the huge payout and to the bank's performance in the second half of the year.
Under the terms of the accord, Bank of America would deliver the money to the trustee for the securities, Bank of New York Mellon, which would distribute it to the institutional investors.
The issue of how much Bank of America will have to compensate investors in mortgage securities it assembled has been hanging over the bank's shares since last fall. But the bank does not anticipate having to raise capital or sell stock to find the money for the settlement.
Still, other huge risks loom from the fallout of the subprime mortgage crisis. All 50 state attorneys general are in the final stages of settling an investigation into abuses by the biggest mortgage servicers, and are pressing the big banks to pay up to $30 billion in fines and penalties.
What's more, insurance companies that backed many of the soured mortgage-backed securities are also pressing for reimbursement, arguing that the original mortgages were underwritten with false information and did not conform to normal standards.
In an interview on Tuesday, before reports of the Bank of America settlement, Sheila C. Bair, the chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, worried that the unresolved mortgage claims continued to hurt the broader economy.
''Unresolved legal claims could serve as a drag on the recovery of the housing market,'' Ms. Bair said. ''The healing of the housing market is essential to the recovery of the broader economy.''
The huge settlement represents a sharp move away from the position that Bank of America's chief executive, Brian T. Moynihan, initially adopted last fall when the legal effort by the investors began.
Mr. Moynihan said in October, ''We'd love never to talk about this again and put it behind us, but the right answer is to fight for it.''
Not long after that, however, the bank started negotiations with the investor group, led by a Houston lawyer, Kathy Patrick. And in January, it reached a settlement with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled housing finance giants, to buy back $2.5 billion in troubled mortgages, settling potential claims from them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bank of America's chief executive, Brian Moynihan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF KOWALSKY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (78%); LITIGATION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); BONDS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (56%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); ACA (PAR) (56%); ACA (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%)

PERSON: BRIAN MOYNIHAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1092 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Economic Meeting With India Yields Little

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Financial policy makers from the United States and India concluded a brief round of meetings Tuesday with talk of friendship but no specific agreements, a result that contrasted with the superficially similar talks between the United States and China last month.
The United States and India have much in common. They are the world's largest democracies, with relatively open economies and similar views on a range of geopolitical issues. 
Yet trade between the two countries is just a fraction of the flow between the United States and China, and leaders from both sides struggled to articulate an agenda for this latest round of talks.
''One of the things that's so encouraging about it is the relative absence of drama,'' Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said Monday, when asked why these meetings lacked the specific objectives of the meetings with China. ''There is a natural complementarity of interest.''
The Obama administration inaugurated annual economic talks with India last year as part of its focus on cultivating relationships with emerging markets like India and Brazil.
The administration views increased exports as the most likely driver of an American economic recovery, so it is seeking to open new markets in those countries. Moreover, it sees an opportunity to make common cause in pressuring China to adopt economic reforms.
Mr. Geithner traveled to India last year for talks with his counterparts. The meetings Tuesday were the return engagement, attended by senior officials from both sides, including the heads of both nations' central banks and a representative handful of financial regulators.
The United States and India traded about $50 billion in goods in 2010, ranking India 12th on the list of American trading partners. The volume of trade has increased rapidly in recent years, but remains at about one-tenth the level of trade between the United States and China, although the figures do not include the value of services that India sells to the United States.
American officials said before the meetings that the United States would like India to increase market access for foreign companies, particularly retailers and the financial industry. The United States also is encouraging India to pursue internal financial and political reforms it views as important for development -- and by extension, India's value as a trading partner -- like fostering a market in government bonds to raise money for public infrastructure.
''India's growth is good for us, just as our growth is good for India,'' Mr. Geithner said.
The talks, however, produced no specific agreements. A statement Tuesday cited ''deeper institutional relationships'' as a major achievement. After similar meetings with China last month, the United States published two lists of detailed commitments that ran for several pages.
The Indian finance minister, Pranab Mukherjee, said Monday that he saw no obstacles to the flow of goods, services, people and money between the countries.
''I do not think there is any hurdle,'' Mr. Mukherjee said during a joint appearance with Mr. Geithner at a conference on India sponsored by the Brookings Institution. ''Through negotiations and conversations we have been able to remove the obstacles that are there.''
Mr. Geithner politely disagreed, saying, ''I cannot improve on that answer,'' before continuing on to note that ''there's a bunch of things that stand in the way'' of increased trade between the countries, ''and we'll keep trying to work through those things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner with India's finance minister, Pranab Mukherjee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BONDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); RETAILERS (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: PRANAB MUKHERJEE (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2011



1093 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; culture

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Now Showing | Daniel Turner and Colin Snapp

BYLINE: JACOB BROWN


HIGHLIGHT: Turner and Snapp take an an aggressive approach to mixing mediums in their work, some of which will go on view tomorrow at the Martos Gallery in New York.

 BODY:
The boys of Jules Marquis are back. The artists Daniel Turner and Colin Snapp have a joint show opening tomorrow at the Martos Gallery in New York. According to Snapp, "The works aim to confront the paradox of the current age by illuminating the process in which regional economies, societies and cultures have become integrated through a globe-spanning network of exchange." They accomplish this, in part, through an aggressive approach to mixing mediums, which vary from large-scale video stills to rust smears on the gallery floor. In the slide show above, Snapp and Turner offer us a preview of sorts: two images of new work making their debut tomorrow, followed by four key past works they feel helped them arrive at their current artistic fascinations.
"Colin Snapp / Daniel Turner," Martos Gallery, 540 West 29th Street; (212) 560-0670; martosgallery.com.

        
Video Exclusive | Gang Gang Dance and Jules Marquis
        
Timely | Jules Marquis Art in America

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%) Colin Snapp; Daniel Turner; Jules Marquis; Martos Gallery; Culture

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1094 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: New Investment Strategy: Preparing for End Times

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED


HIGHLIGHT: In return for small losses now, some funds offer to protect portfolios against events that are extremely unlikely or even unthinkable.

 BODY:
Investment professionals have a new pitch: The sky could soon be falling.
While Greece took a step back from the brink on Wednesday, the possibility of a default remains a fear. Europe's debt crisis, as well as natural disasters and political uprisings, are prompting investors both big and small to seek out investments that promise to protect their portfolios in the event of economic Armageddon.
Worried that Greece could go belly up? So-called black swan funds - named for rare and unexpected events - offer a way to profit in the event of a market collapse. Think a slowdown in the United States or China could set off a global economic crisis? New exchange-traded funds are popping up to help pad investor confidence.
Since the financial crisis, many investors have prospered from a rebound in the markets. But recent events have led some to brace for the worst.
 "Clients are suddenly realizing the world isn't as rosy as it's been," said Ahmed Fattouh, a hedge fund executive. "It makes a lot of sense to have these tail protections on."
 That is, protections against what Wall Street calls "tail risk" - a disaster that is estimated to have less than half a percent chance of happening.
 Investors learned about tail risk the hard way. For decades, diversification - spreading holdings across stocks, bonds and other investments - was promoted as the way to protect investments from market crashes. But the financial crisis proved that seemingly unrelated assets could fall in unison. As a result, an increasing number of investors now want protection for financial end times.
These funds and offerings, usually costly and complicated, can be likened to insurance. Investors lose money on them during normal times, but they stand to gain if catastrophe strikes. Tens of billions of dollars are in such investments, representing a small but growing fraction of the investment world, particularly for a strategy that many investors would have scoffed at five years ago as expensive and unnecessary.
 "In the last decade, we saw two stock market crashes, which wiped out any gains for investors over the decade and meant disaster for those who had to take their money out to meet big expenses at market lows," said Zvi Bodie, a professor of finance at Boston University School of Management. That, he said, "has just made the current generation of investors more aware that it is risky even over a decade or more."
 Wall Street lawyers say money manager clients have approached them in recent months about forming new funds aimed at providing protection. Banks like Goldman Sachs are marketing tools engineered to bulletproof investors. Products linked to an index known as the market's "fear gauge" total nearly $2.5 billion. And in the last year, the amount of money managed in dedicated tail-risk accounts by the bond giant Pimco has doubled to $23 billion.
 Boaz Weinstein, a former trader at Deutsche Bank who lost more than $1 billion of the bank's money during the financial crisis, began raising money for his own Armageddon fund late last year. It has since grown to $400 million of mostly institutional money, part of the $3.3 billion he has raised for his hedge funds.
 "Some investors after nursing those losses say, 'I'd be much happier in return for not having that kind of downside to reinvest 1 percent of my portfolio in tail hedging,' " he said.
 Investors include big public pensions. Joelle Mevi, the chief investment officer of New Mexico's public employee pension fund, recently presented some tail risk options to her board. "While I wouldn't tend to put a very large allocation there, I believe in having that type of insurance for the funds," she said.
 But protection does not come cheap and occasionally fails to work. Some say such funds are merely the latest Wall Street fad and may be ineffective because they are designed to protect against the last catastrophe, not the crisis to come.
 "I kind of believe that the best way to reduce risk is to take things out of the portfolio, not add them," said Ken Grant, president and founder of Risk Resources.
 Although the names tail risk funds and black swan funds are often used interchangeably, they are distinct. Tail risk events are situations that, while conceivable, are highly unlikely based on mathematical modeling. By contrast, a black swan - a concept popularized by Nassim N. Taleb's 2007 book "The Black Swan" - is an event that models fail to predict.
 So how do such Armageddon funds work? Take a situation like the collapse of China's economy, an event considered highly unlikely. While most American investors do not own Chinese stocks, real estate or currency, the fear is that a shock to China would spread to the rest of the world. As the stock markets fell, a tail risk or black swan fund would profit because it owned the options to sell shares in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index at far higher levels. The more the index dropped, the more valuable those options would become.
 At Universa Investments, Mark Spitznagel, a former partner of Mr. Taleb's, has raised more than $6 billion for a fund that is awaiting a market calamity. In the meantime, he acknowledges, it is losing money nearly every day. Part of the reason is that he buys options to sell a given stock in the future for a price below where it is currently trading. If the stock doesn't move, or rises, the option is worthless, and he loses money. But if the share price tanks, he can make substantial profits.
 Mr. Spitznagel, one of the more experienced doomsday managers, derides those who have jumped into the game recently. It takes a special kind of person to manage these kinds of investments, he says - people capable of slowly taking losses, without losing their composure.
 "It takes someone that's a little bit nuts," he said. "I'll do a trade, then say, 'This is the best trade I've ever done in my career, but I'm quite sure I'm going to lose money on it.' " 
 "I understand my payoff and I understand these are very small losses relative to what I know I'm going to make eventually."
Others are raising money to bet against the world. Capula Investment Management has raised some $2 billion, while 36 South Capital Advisors, a London-based fund that returned more than 200 percent during the 2008 crisis, is at $300 million and counting.
 Not all investors are sold.
"Tail risk is out there, we all know it's out there, but if you have 20 some hedge funds, you're really looking for strategies that work in the total picture," said Craig Slaughter, who oversees roughly $12 billion as the head of the West Virginia Investment Management Board. "Focusing on tail risk strategies - I'm just a little suspicious. It's a little bit of a sales technique."

        
Whither Wall Street? Pick Your Indicator 
        
Creating the Improbable: Did Bet Trigger Crash?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); BONDS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (84%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (79%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); TRENDS (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Black Swans; Boaz Weinstein; Greece; Mark Spitznagel; money managers; Nassim Taleb; pension funds; Pimco; sovereign debt crisis; tail risk; Universa; VIX; Asset Allocation (Personal Finances); Doomsday; Economic Conditions and Trends; Hedge Funds; Financial Services

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); GREECE (90%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1095 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Summertime Blues for Teenagers

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: It's the recession and not cutbacks in government programs that have reduced summer jobs for teenagers, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago.
Many teenagers cannot find work this summer, victims of a weak economy and a situation made worse by minimum-wage laws. Budget cuts for government youth-employment programs are a much less important factor.
Employment rates among teenagers are much lower now than they were before the recession began. While some people blame cuts to summer youth-hiring programs by state, local and federal governments, even in the best of times these provide only a small fraction of summer jobs for teenagers.
I used the Census Bureau's monthly household surveys from January 2000 to December 2009 to calculate the amount that each industry's employment of teenagers (measured as the sum of hours worked by all persons 16 to 19) during June, July, and August exceeded its average value in the months of April, May, September and October. For the economy as a whole, the average teenager worked 11 hours a week during the summer, compared with an average of eight hours a week during the academic year.Not surprisingly, the arts, entertainment and recreation industries provided more of those extra work hours - about 16 percent of them -- than any other industry group. Accommodation and food services -- that is, hotels and restaurants -- provided 15 percent.
Retail trade and construction were next among the job providers, with 11 and 9 percent, respectively. Local government was fifth, providing less than 9 percent of the extra summer work for teenagers. Even the combination of local, state and federal government hiring explained less than one-eighth of the extra summer work for teenagers (for the contributions of more industries, see Table 4 of this paper).
The vast majority of summer youth hiring is done by the private sector, and even if government eliminated its summer youth hiring, that would hardly dent the total.
(Employment rates for adults are also much lower than they were before the recession, although in lesser percentages than for youth. As with youth, private-sector employment reductions were much larger than the public sector reductions.)
Employment during recessions tends to drop disproportionately among low-skilled people like teenagers, so the latest recession has to be the biggest factor in explaining why teenage employment rates are so low today.
But minimum-wage laws also disproportionately affect teenagers -- reducing their employment rates -- and the federal minimum wage was increased three times in and around this recession. (Next week I will present more evidence on the number of jobs lost because of the most recent federal minimum wage hike.)
If the government wants to help raise teenage employment rates significantly, a good way to start would be by reducing labor market regulation rather than spending tax dollars on youth employment programs.

        
The Minimum Wage and Teenage Jobs
        
Labor Supply Always Matters
        
Digging Deeper Into What Caused Job Losses
        
New Keynesian Economics Misses the Point, for Now
        
Measuring Jobless Families 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); FOOD INDUSTRY (65%); RESTAURANTS (65%); CENSUS (56%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; employment; government workers; summer jobs; teenagers; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; Labor and Jobs; Minimum Wage; Recession and Depression; Teenagers and Adolescence; Working Hours

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1096 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Offers a Different Take on U.S. Growth

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The International Monetary Fund, in its annual report on the American economy, said growth will not top 3 percent through 2016.

 BODY:
We pay a lot of attention to the Federal Reserve's economic forecasts. It's worth paying at least a little attention to a second opinion offered Wednesday by the International Monetary Fund, which houses another of the world's largest herds of economists just three city blocks away. The I.M.F. foresees a much less happy and prosperous future for the United States. The fund, in its annual report on the American economy, said growth will not top 3 percent through 2016:
2011: 2.5 percent2012: 2.7 percent2013: 2.7 percent2014: 2.9 percent2015: 2.9 percent2016: 2.8 percent Those are abysmal numbers that imply that the United States has no imminent prospect of recovering the losses sustained during the recession, and that the American economy has been shunted onto a path of lower growth. As the I.M.F. notes, one important consequence is that millions of Americans would remain unable to find work for years to come. The Fed, by contrast, predicted last week that growth will accelerate. It said the economy would expand up to 2.9 percent this year, up to 3.7 percent in 2012 and up to 4.2 percent in 2013.
Why is the I.M.F. so much more pessimistic? One key difference is that the multinational fund regards housing as a long-term weight on the economy, depressing consumer spending. Indeed, it said that continued weakness in the housing market could result in an even slower expansion. "We think that housing difficulties merit more policy attention since they are central to the slow recovery and pose a critical risk," the I.M.F. report said.

        
The Lawyer Surplus, State by State
        
Cars as a Harbinger of an Upturn
        
Economists Lower G.D.P. Forecasts for 2nd Quarter
        
Good News for Grandpa
        
Inflation, in Perspective

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RECESSION (77%) Federal Reserve; Forecasts; IMF; Economic Conditions and Trends; Housing and Real Estate; United States Economy; Federal Reserve System; International Monetary Fund

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (95%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System; International Monetary Fund

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1097 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: Nurturing Start-Ups and Small Businesses Around the World, Part 1

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: In almost every developed country, small companies dominate the business landscape. But in many ways America, the great land of entrepreneurship and opportunity, actually has a weaker small-business presence than most.

 BODY:
In almost every developed country, small companies dominate the business landscape. But in many ways America, the great land of entrepreneurship and opportunity, actually has a weaker small-business presence than most.
A new report on entrepreneurship from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development finds that the smallest businesses - those with fewer than 10 employees - account for almost all of the businesses in most developed countries. The United States is on the low end of the distribution, though, with only about three-quarters of its businesses being so tiny.
The United States also finds that its biggest companies contribute a much larger share of the country's exports than is the case in other developed nations. In the United States, companies with more than 250 employees account for 75 percent of the country's exports; in many European countries, big businesses contribute less than half of national exports.
A more direct measure of entrepreneurship might be the share of workers who are self-employed. Compared to other developed countries, the United States figures are poor to middling, for both native-born and the huddled masses coming from abroad. Greece has the highest rate of self-employment for native-born citizens, and Poland has far and away the highest self-employment rate for foreigners.
In a separate post I'll look at how countries fare on creating a climate that is amenable to start-up businesses, looking at the regulatory environment, availability of venture capital and other factors.

        
Nurturing Start-Ups and Small Businesses Around the World, Part 2
        
America's (Very Small) Small-Business Sector
        
Is America's Small-Business Sector So Small Because of Health Care?
        
Recessions and the 'Entrepreneurial Spirit'
        
Mexicans Work the Longest Hours

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (94%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); STARTUPS (86%); TRENDS (77%); RECESSION (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%) entrepreneurship; international economics; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; self-employed; small businesses; Economic Conditions and Trends; Small Business

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (91%) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1098 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: The Pirate Sumter

BYLINE: RICK BEARD


HIGHLIGHT: The South developed a naval strategy that included raiders aimed at disrupting the North's trading business.

 BODY:
About midday on June 30, 1861, the Sumter, a recently refitted Confederate ship helmed by Capt. Raphael Semmes, slipped over the bar at Pass a l'Outre, the easternmost channel of the Mississippi River south of New Orleans; after a dramatic four-hour chase by the Brooklyn, a Union sloop-of-war, it was on the loose in the Caribbean. The Sumter was just one ship, helmed by an obscure former United States Navy officer - but over the next six months it would have a devastating impact on Union commercial shipping.
Barely four months earlier, Semmes had resigned his commission in the Navy, after 35 years of workmanlike service, to answer the call of his adopted state of Alabama. "He had no particular taste for his profession," wrote Semmes' contemporary and Union naval hero David Dixon Porter, "his tastes were rather those of the scholar than a dashing naval officer." Semmes's initial assignment for the Confederacy sent him first to Washington, where he was unaccountably permitted to inspect a federal arsenal and examine new explosive technologies, and then on to New York and New England to contract for war materiel, before reporting to the Confederacy's naval secretary, Stephen Mallory.
Mallory had a particularly daring assignment in mind for Semmes. As a Florida senator before the war, Mallory had been a staunch advocate for a strong navy, a notion he carried with him into the Confederate government. Mallory advocated a naval strategy built in part around commerce raiders, which he hoped would so disrupt trade that the Northern business community would pressure Lincoln to redirect Union ships from blockade duty in response. The Sumter, with Semmes as captain, was the first raider deployed.
That the strategy ultimately failed was due more to the superiority of the Union's naval resources than to any want of aggression by the Confederate navy. Indeed, during the next four years Semmes and his compatriots sank over 110,000 tons of Northern shipping. Semmes' commands alone - the Sumter and later the Alabama - accounted for 81 ships valued at $4.6 million (or about $110 million in 2011 dollars), including a significant part of the Union whaling fleet, destroyed off the Azores in late 1862. During a two-year rampage, the Florida destroyed 33 ships valued at over $4 million, and, in the month of February 1865 alone, the Shenandoah sank 24 Northern whaling ships in Alaskan waters. Altogether, over 250 Northern ships were sent to the ocean floor, causing maritime insurance rates to soar. 
And the raiders did divert Union attention: for 14 months after January 1863, 77 Union warships and an additional 23 chartered vessels spent some portion of their time at sea searching for the Alabama. Most importantly, the United States' emerging pre-eminence as a commercial maritime power was forever blunted: during the war over 800,000 tons of American-registered shipping was sold to neutral nations. Britain alone purchased over 700 United States ships.
The Sumter was an unlikely vessel with which to inaugurate the Southern naval strategy. Barely 184 feet long and 30 feet wide and armed with just one eight-inch pivot gun and four 32-pounders, the three-masted steam ship had previously ferried passengers between New Orleans and Havana and could only carry enough coal for eight days. Nevertheless, Semmes and his crew of 105 sailors and marines were charged by Mallory "to do the greatest injury in the shortest time" to Yankee shipping. 
Barely three days out of New Orleans, the Sumter encountered her first victim, the Golden Rocket. After removing the crew and some naval supplies, Semmes set the cargoless vessel ablaze, noting that "our first prize made a beautiful bonfire and we did not enjoy the spectacle the less because she was from the black Republican State of Maine." 
As Semmes slowly worked his way southeast toward the well-travelled sea lanes off Brazil, he continued to wreak havoc with northern shipping. Within the first week he captured six vessels, and by the end of July, four more.
The reaction from northern economic and political leaders was immediate. "In view of the exploits of Southern privateers within the last few days off our coast, a feeling of apprehension has come to pervade our mercantile community," Massachusetts Governor John A. Andrews wrote in a panicked July 16 letter to Gideon Welles, Lincoln's secretary of the Navy, "[and] there is serious trouble among all our insurance companies." That same day Welles received a request for California Senator Milton Latham "in the name of the bankers of the city of New York and the State of California" for a war steamer to escort the Northern Light, which would have "on board over $2,000,000 and near 1,000 passengers, holding from $100,000 to $200,000 more," from the Panamanian port of Colon to New York. "The pirate Sumter," he continued, "is cruising south of Cuba and will no doubt be on the alert to seize this valuable cargo." Three days later Welles ordered the gunboat the Keystone State to "proceed to sea at the earliest possible moment . . . for the purpose of searching for the pirate Sumter and giving protection to the next treasure ship."
By September, Semmes was sailing off the coast of Brazil. In a letter to William H. Seward, Lincoln's secretary of state, the American consul lamented the chilling impact of the Confederate raider. "Your Excellency cannot possibly imagine the effect which the presence of the Sumter on this coast has had on American trade," he wrote. "It is quite possible that it will be entirely suspended."
Despite the psychological and financial impact of his raiding, Semmes found his traverse of the Caribbean increasingly frustrating. Anxious not to antagonize the United States, Spanish and French colonial officials in Cuba and the West Indies often delayed or refused his requests for supplies, fuel and berths for his prizes. 
By the end of September, Semmes turned north toward the Equator in search of new opportunities. By now the Sumter's reputation was leading Yankee vessels to chart new sea routes in an increasingly successful effort to avoid the commerce raider. From August to the end of October the Sumter captured only three prizes, one of which, the Daniel Trowbridge, outbound from New York to Guiana, carried provisions sufficient to support the raider for five months. At the same time, three Union warships - the Powhatan, the Iroquois and the Keystone State - were scouring the Caribbean in search of the Sumter. In mid-November the Iroquois finally caught up with the Confederate ship while it was taking on coal at Martinique. The international rules of war held that if the Union ship actually entered the harbor at St. Pierre, the Sumter would be given a 24-hour head start when it departed, so the Iroquois's commander, Capt. James Palmer, took up station outside the harbor. On Nov. 23, under the cover of darkness, Semmes made a daring run for the open sea and escaped, one day before a second Union warship arrived.
Semmes then decided to cross the Atlantic. The 33-day voyage, during which the Sumter captured three prizes, exposed the tiny ship to fierce mid-ocean storms; it finally limped into the Spanish port of Cadiz on Dec. 28. After allowing for only minor repairs, Spanish officials forced the Confederate raider to leave. By mid-January, Semmes and the Sumter had moved on to a more welcoming berth at British-controlled Gibraltar.
There the brief but effective life of the South's first commerce raider came to a close. On Feb. 12, 1862, the Tuscarora, a Union sloop-of-war, took up station off Algeciras. Another sloop, the Kearsarge, soon arrived, and after sharing the harbor with the Sumter, also took up station in international waters. On March 6 a third Union ship hove to off Gibraltar, prompting Semmes to ask the Confederate envoy in London, James M. Mason, for permission to lay up. "The crippled condition of my ship and the want of funds," he wrote, "have deprived me of the power of scouring the Mediterranean, the whole of which sea I could have swept without molestation in from fifteen to twenty days." 
Four weeks later he was directed to dismiss the crew and leave the Sumter, and on April 14 he and his officers took passage on a steamer to Southampton. From there they sailed for home, but got only as far as Nassau, the Bahamas before being ordered back to England and then on to the Azores to outfit and take command of Hulk 290, soon to be christened the Alabama, another raider that would go on to even greater success.
In six months, the Sumter had captured 18 vessels, seven of which were destroyed, seven more were released by Spanish authorities, and four were released on bond. David Porter, no friend to Semmes, wrote: "There never was a naval commander who in so short a time committed such depredations on an enemy's commerce, or so successfully eluded the vessels sent in pursuit of him."
Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook.
Sources: John M. Taylor, "Semmes: Rebel Raider"; Stephen Fox, "Wolf of the Deep: Raphael Semmes and the Notorious Confederate Raider CSS Alabama"; Ivan Musicant, "Divided Waters: The Naval History of the Civil War"; Spencer C. Tucker, "Blue & Gray Navies: The Civil War Afloat"; Official Records of the Union and Confederate Navies in the War of the Rebellion; and Raphael Semmes, "The Cruise of the Alabama and the Sumter."
Rick Beard is an independent historian and coordinator of the Civil War Sesquicentennial for the American Association for State and Local History.

        
Change Comes to Savannah
        
A Railroad to Freedom, Underground No More
        
Parallel Lives from the Eastern Shore
        
Mr. Marsh's Italian Job
        
The Color of Money

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NAVIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (85%); MARITIME PIRACY (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); OCEAN MARINE INSURANCE (73%); WHALING (60%) Blockade; Navy; Raphael Semmes; the civil war; Warships; Lincoln, Abraham; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Piracy at Sea; Ships and Shipping; Alabama; Disunion

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (83%)

PERSON: Lincoln, Abraham

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%) Alabama

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1099 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 1712 words

HEADLINE: The Doubts of a Stay-at-Home Dad

BYLINE: LISA BELKIN


HIGHLIGHT: "Has my choice doomed my daughters to be 'torn' all over again when it's their turn...?"

 BODY:
Our conversation about the June selection for the Motherlode Book Club is winding down (look for the announcement of the July book right after Independence Day...), and Vincent O'Keefe has been watching that conversation closely. As a stay-at-home father to two daughters, he has been "thinking a lot about a surprising issue the book raises indirectly," he explained in an e-mail, specifically:whether a father's decision to be a stay-at-home parent, often seen as a feminist, pro-woman decision, might also be considered an anti-feminist decision when viewed through certain lenses. In other words, I have never felt very "torn" about whether I made the right decision to stay home with my two daughters until after, ironically, reading "Torn" with them in mind!I asked him to put his thoughts into a guest post, which he calls:
WILL MY DAUGHTERS END UP 'TORN' BECAUSE OF ME?A STAY-AT-HOME FATHER PONDERS THE FUTURE
By Vincent O'Keefe
Given some of the spirited conversations about "Torn," I'll start by giving thanks for how "intact" most of us are today. Reading about parents dealing with military deployments, breast cancer and poverty quickly puts most work/family balance problems in perspective. I do think it's important, however, to discuss work/life balance for all parents, because it has great implications for our children, who are, after all, the next generation of parents. In fact, as the stay-at-home father of two daughters, I couldn't help but read "Torn" through their eyes, and my reactions surprised me. 
By way of introduction, years ago I was fortunate enough to be able to choose stay-at-home fatherhood. After college, I earned a Ph.D. in American literature at Loyola University Chicago and became a full-time lecturer at the University of Michigan. I liked my job, but I also wanted to start a family, and it was clear that my wife's financial future as an obstetrician/gynecologist was brighter than mine. Ironically, my dissertation had featured the philosophy of American pragmatism, so it seemed fitting that I do what "worked" for us.
We also knew that if both of us kept working, we were going to need a tremendous amount of childcare, since I had a long commute, and an OB/GYN resident's schedule is brutal. In addition, we had no immediate family to help us. Finally, I knew that I had always enjoyed kids, so I experienced that ill-fated interior monologue that so many childless adults (especially men) have echoed over history: "I can probably do this. How hard can it be?" (Uh, hard as hell, as it turned out, since our breastfed baby had colic and there were no functioning nipples in the house once my wife's brief maternity leave ended.)
Like some of the "Torn" writers, I did not rush to open my alumni newsletters after my version of "opting out." But any guilt or envy quickly subsided, and overall I have not felt very torn as an at-home parent, at least not before reading "Torn," ironically (more on that in a moment). I think a key reason for my feeling intact is that despite the occasional mockery, in my experience a father who chooses to stay home is far more supported than a mother, sometimes to the point of glorification.
What struck me most in Parts 1-5 of the book were those working mothers who viewed themselves as examples of independence for their sons and daughters. As I read those essays, a tinge of inadequacy stirred in me as a stay-at-home parent. Surprisingly, this stirring popped a steroid by the time I reached the end of Part 6, "The Stay-at-Home Struggle."
Part 6 started out comforting, as I loved learning from Sue Repko's essay that some of the "afflictions" of Planet SAHM are shared by its "brother" Planet SAHD. A few years back, I definitely suffered from what she calls "progressive PTA disorder" due to over-volunteering, though sadly I've never contracted "tidy home disease." Later in the section, I also appreciated Katherine Ozment's touching revision of the "opt-out" label, as she describes her evolution as a stay-at-home mother: "In truth, I feel more 'in' my life than ever, connected to a purpose - the love and care of my children - that is pure in a way no job I ever had was."
That had me in a warm place for a moment, but then came Katy Read's "Regrets of a Stay-at-Home Mom," which hit me like a slap from Cher. After beginning by saying she and her two sons "had wonderful times together" when she was home with them, Read reveals the rub: "Now I lie awake at 3 a.m., terrified that as a result I am permanently financially screwed."
During my years as a stay-at-home parent, I had often heard about the various costs of quitting one's job, but Read stirs them together in a toxic stew: "lost promotions, raises, and retirement benefits"; "atrophied skills and frayed professional networks"; risks of a "divorce, widowhood, or a partner's layoff"; and the general lack of a safety net for oneself and one's children. Reading her essay reminded me of the night I was channel surfing during some invaluable "no kids just me and ESPN time" when I received a sudden scolding from Suze Orman. I don't recall her exact words, but the gist was "if you are a stay-at-home parent and you have let your retirement account go unfunded, you are a FOOL!" I nearly dropped my bag of chips.
So one of the questions Read's essay raises is whether it is irresponsible for one parent to devote himself/herself wholeheartedly to childcare at the expense of his/her career and independence? (I am not trying to ignite a "mommy" or "parent" war here - the question involves the stay-at-home model, not who fills that position.) Reflecting on my own situation, I thought yes, it is good that my daughters see a professionally successful mother and a father who takes childcare seriously. And yes, it is good for them to see that I am now a part-time writer working on a parenting memoir. But am I somehow setting an example of dependence that could backfire in the future? In larger terms, is a stay-at-home father actually anti-feminist in some ways, since he contributes to traditional breadwinner/homemaker roles, just with different genders - roles that will most likely continue to put more pressure on women than men to tether their ambition for their children's sake?
To compound the issue, Samantha Parent Walravens notes in her interview with Lisa Belkin that "four out of five families today have both parents working, and 71% of mothers with kids under 18 are working." And given the ongoing economic sluggishness, Read seems correct to speculate that we are approaching the "twilight" of the stay-at-home parent. In twenty years, will stay-at-home parents become extinct, or might their numbers increase as more men join the ranks? It's hard to say, but I'd bet on the former, due in larger part to economic pressures than men's unwillingness to help. An increasing number of men I know seem to understand that childcare is difficult, important, and not just for women anymore. It does seem significant, however, that of the 47 authors in "Torn," none are married to a stay-at-home husband (unless I missed one), and few writers seem to talk in much detail about their partner's involvement. (Windi Padia's essay is a nice exception.) If more fathers felt more torn, would more mothers feel more intact?
Faced with this likely dual-income future, here are some of my questions: Has my stay-at-home choice doomed my daughters to be "torn" all over again when it's their turn to make choices about parenting arrangements, especially if the stay-at-home option has become extinct? And even if it is not extinct by then, am I setting my daughters up to feel guilty for being career women since they grew up with a SAHP, especially if their husband does not want to be a SAHP? Should I have modeled more of a work-at-home parenting style to better prepare them for their likely future? (Am I an unstable overthinker who protests too much at this point? Perhaps, but I'd still be interested in some answers.)
Recently, I asked my daughters about three possible scenarios if they have children when they get older. Would they prefer to be a working parent, a stay-at-home parent, or a parent who combines working and caring for her children, alternating with her partner? My eight-year-old, who is baby-crazy, replied instantly: "My husband is going to have a job. I want to be a stay-at-home mom and my husband can do all the work." While I was glad that my relative happiness as a stay-at-home parent makes the job desirable to her, you can see my reason for concern. Though I have stressed to my daughters that I also "work" part-time writing parenting essays, overall they view me much more as a parent than a "worker."
My eleven-year-old, who has matured quite a bit recently, gave me the "balance" answer: "I would want to work some of the time and be home some of the time." That makes sense to me too, though this is the same daughter who a few years ago (after one of my reprimands) met an extremely nice female neighbor and then asked my wife: "Why didn't you marry her?" My wife didn't know where to begin to respond. I suggested the starting point of "what's wrong with your father?"
So my final questions involve the future of parenting. In twenty years, do you think there will still be a stay-at-home option, or will stay-at-home parents become extinct? And if so, is that a good or bad thing? Kathryn Beaumont implies the ultimate dominance of the dual-earner family may be a good thing, as she explains her pride as a working mother: "I miss reading my daughter stories during the day . . . But life holds too many surprises: a mid-life crisis, a heart-attack, a layoff in a faltering economy. Were something to happen to my husband, I could support us - all of us."
On the other hand, of course, while the professional wants of women and men continue to change, the real needs of children do not. If we seem headed to a 100% dual-earner society, what are the best ways to balance that development with the constant need for quality childcare for all children, not just the privileged? As you can see, after reading "Torn," I'm a bit torn myself.

        
Balancing Life and Work Around the World
        
Talking About 'Torn'
        
A Year of Parenting, 2
        
How (Not) to Treat a Stay-at-Home-Dad
        
The Evolution of Dad

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WORK-LIFE BALANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); MEN (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PARENTING (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (75%); CHILD CARE (64%) Motherlode Book Club; Stay-at-Home Dads; Families and Family Life; Parenting

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) MICHIGAN, USA (67%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1100 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: City Council Approves $36.4 Million for Earmarks

BYLINE: ANDY NEWMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Council voted on Wednesday to approve a budget roughly the size of Kenya's economy. But the distribution of discretionary money offered insights into the political connections of nonprofit organizations and the behind-the-scenes power dynamics of the Council.

 BODY:
The City Council voted on Wednesday to approve a budget roughly the size of Kenya's economy. But for political savants, the most interesting part may be a tiny sliver of it: the $36.4 million set aside in discretionary money.
 How those earmarks are spent offers insights into the political connections of the city's nonprofit organizations and the behind-the-scenes power dynamics of the Council.
The Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, determines how much money each of the 51 council members can spend.
Domenic M. Recchia Jr., the chairman of the Finance Committee and a Democrat from Brooklyn, took home $1.4 million, the most of any council member. The runners-up were Lewis A. Fidler, the assistant majority leader and also a Brooklyn Democrat, with $975,000; Leroy G. Comrie Jr., Democrat of Queens and chairman of the powerful Land Use Committee, with $856,657; and James S. Oddo, who is from Staten Island and is the Council's Republican leader, with $831,667. 
Larry B. Seabrook, Democrat of the Bronx, who has been indicted on charges of extortion and fraud related to his use of earmarks, received the smallest amount, $102,187. He tied with another Bronx lawmaker, Helen Diane Foster, a Democrat, who has been accused of poor attendance at Council hearings.
Among nonprofit groups, the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty was again the leader in earmarks, receiving $1.1 million. The Ridgewood Bushwick Senior Citizens Council, which is under investigation over allegations of corruption, was another top recipient, with $479,125.
One of the groups receiving the smallest amounts was the Brain Tumor Foundation, traditionally a favorite of lawmakers, which got $18,500 this year, far short of the $1.3 million it had requested. (The New York Times reported in March that some scientists harbored serious doubts about the group's cancer-screening methods.)
The earmarks came from two sources: $19.8 million given out by council members and $16.6 million from Ms. Quinn as speaker. In total, the Council gave out about $2.2 million less in discretionary money this year compared with the previous year's amount.
Our political reporters, and occasional guests, offer you a peek inside Albany and City Hall. Check back every Wednesday. Jo Craven McGinty contributed reporting this week.

        
Bloomberg Administration Is Criticized on Wages
        
Quinn Criticizes Bloomberg Plan to Cut Spending
        
Mayor Wasn't Told About Storm Response, Goldsmith Says
        
Council Easy, Dog Hard; and a Skilled Negotiator 
        
Primary Results Show Progress for Gay Candidates

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (92%); APPROVALS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); MAYORS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); INDICTMENTS (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); EXTORTION (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (64%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%) Christine C. Quinn; City Council; earmarks; Governing Class; Quinn, Christine C; Budgets and Budgeting; City Councils; Earmarks (Finance); Politics and Government; New York City; Highlights

PERSON: Quinn, Christine C

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); KENYA (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1101 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: Trading Firms Await New Derivatives Regulations

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: New electronic trading platforms for swaps are being set up, but regulators have yet to finalize the rules or say when they will be in effect.

 BODY:
Wall Street is waiting on Washington. 
While regulators struggle to finalize a series of rules for derivatives trading, many firms are already gearing up to comply with the sweeping new requirements, trading firms told Congress on Wednesday. 
 The Dodd-Frank financial regulatory law requires companies to trade credit default swaps and many other derivatives contracts through regulated exchanges or a new invention known as swap execution facilities. 
Regulators have estimated that 30 to 40 firms -- ranging from big names in the derivatives business like Bloomberg L.P. to budding online marketplaces like Tradeweb -- will become swap execution facilities. or S.E.F.'s. The new electronic trading platforms, a creation of Dodd-Frank, are intended to bolster transparency in the $600 trillion over-the-counter derivatives market.
 "Banks, hedge funds, insurers and other sophisticated entities are very eager and ready to begin trading on S.E.F.'s," Ben Macdonald, global head of fixed income for Bloomberg L.P., said in prepared testimony to the Senate Banking Committee. Bloomberg, which already runs one of the world's largest electronic trading platforms for derivatives, "fully supports" the move to S.E.F.'s, he said. 
Many interest rate, credit default and currency swaps are "prime candidates for early movement to S.E.F. trading," Mr. Macdonald said at the hearing, which was billed as a "progress report" on the emergence of such platforms.
Now all the swap-execution-facilities-in-waiting need is the regulation itself. 
The Federal Reserve announced last week that it would grant the public two additional weeks to weigh in on crucial derivatives proposals. Earlier this month, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission announced a six-month delay for many of its new derivatives regulations, including the proposal that will spell out rules for the facilities. 
But the pressing question is when the rules will take effect. 
 "Implementation timelines should be the top priority at this juncture," said Chris Bury, co-head of rate sales and trading for Jefferies & Company. "The market needs the certainty of when the rules will become applicable." 
Once regulators hand down the rules, the platforms will have to scramble to adjust to new compliance and legal requirements. The futures trading agency and the Securities and Exchange Commission have outlined proposals that, if enacted, would mandate how swap execution facilities execute trades and communicate derivatives pricing to the market. 
Bloomberg L.P. and other trading firms are pushing the regulators to tread lightly on the S.E.F.'s. 
"Sophisticated market participants do not really need or want federal regulators micromanaging execution protocols," Mr. Macdonald told the banking committee. 
Many complaints stem from a proposal that would require S.E.F.'s to document pricing of derivatives trades. 
"Such restrictive workflow and documentation should be seen for what it is-- nothing more than a transparent attempt to limit customer choice, restrict trade and drain liquidity," said James Cawley, chief executive officer of Javelin Capital Markets, which plans to register as a swap execution facility.
The regulations, trading firms warn, could push derivatives business overseas. 
The increased cost of trading, Mr. Macdonald said, could "impose significant constraints and indirect costs that incentivize market participants to revert to forms of trading that evade the excessive regulation."

        
Derivatives Market Faces New Capital Rules
        
S.E.C. Proposes Rules on Derivative Prices

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); FUTURES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); INSURANCE (73%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); TESTIMONY (72%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%) Bloomberg LP; C.F.T.C; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Dodd-Frank Act; S.E.C.; Securities and Exchange Commission; Senate Banking Committee; swap execution facilites; swaps; Derivatives (Financial Instruments); Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Senate Committee on Banking; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (94%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Securities and Exchange Commission; Senate Committee on Banking

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (94%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1102 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 148 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Sachs Prepares to Cut Jobs

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: The Wall Street plans to lay off 230 employees in New York. The job cuts would begin at the end of September.

 BODY:
The ax is about to fall at Goldman Sachs.
The Wall Street firm said in a filing on Wednesday with New York State that it planned to lay off 230 employees in New York City. Goldman said layoffs would begin at the end of September. 
 Goldman's decision to cut staff comes as no surprise. Faced with weak markets, storm clouds in Europe and uncertainty over regulation, business on Wall Street has slowed significantly in recent months. DealBook reported earlier this month that Goldman plans to cut headcount and hopes to lower its noncompensation expenses by 10 percent, or $1 billion, over the next 12 months. 
The firm listed "economic" as the reason for cutting the 230 people, less than 1 percent of the 35,400 it employs around the world. The firm however is expected to cut more staff in the coming months.

        
Why Wall Street Is Cutting Back
        
Wall Street Braces for New Layoffs as Profits Wane

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (95%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%) Goldman Sachs; Layoffs; Wall Street; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; New York State; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (90%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1103 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: What Some Banks Don't Want You to Know

BYLINE: JAY GOLTZ


HIGHLIGHT: When Wells Fargo declined to answer my questions, I decided to ask my own banker if he could shed some light.

 BODY:
Several weeks ago, the top small-business bankers at Wells Fargo agreed to take questions from You're the Boss readers. For reasons that escape me, I've found that bankers are often reluctant to tell small-business owners precisely what they expect from borrowers, so I couldn't resist contributing a few questions.
Hoping it might be useful to all small-business owners, I asked for specific guidelines that relate to the minimum requirements the bankers look for when considering a loan. I referred to the well known "Five Cs" of credit: character, cash flow, collateral, capital, and conditions. Basically, I asked the bankers to pretend that there were no public relations people or lawyers in the room and just tell us what they really want from us. For example, how do they define good character? Is it O.K. if you've been married four times? What if you don't go to your son's baseball games?
Somehow, the bankers managed not to answer any of my questions -- although they did mention that it was a good idea to clean up your credit report. Gee, thanks! I can't tell you that I understand the downside of giving owners some real insight into what banks are looking for. Maybe the bankers don't want to take a chance on scaring anyone away, but it seems to me it could save us all a lot of time. And judging from the comments, I'm not sure they did themselves any favors. Because I think this is important information, I asked my own banker if he could shed some light on how his bank evaluates loans. He is Matt Sloan, from American Chartered Bank, a mid-sized bank that specializes in small-business lending and has locations around Chicago. Here are his thoughts: Deciding whether to provide credit to a business can definitely be as much art as science, but there are some material factors to consider:
1. How much equity or net worth does the business have on its balance sheet? This is extremely important as we need to know what happens if the company has a rainy day or if our economy goes through another recession. Does the business have enough capital to survive if it loses a major client? On the same note, what is the overall leverage (debt to equity) of the company? Less than four to one? That's fair. Three to one? That's good. Two to one? Excellent. If a business makes $100,000 and the owners pull out $200,000 in distributions, then the company actually lost $100,000 from our perspective. (Believe me, we see this happen.)
2. What type of collateral is supporting the loan? I don't see many banks providing unsecured loans in today's climate so there have to be enough "eligible" receivables (90 days and under), "clean" inventory (sellable), equipment and/or recently appraised real estate to cover the loan amount.
3. Cash Flow. The years 2008 and 2009 were rough for many businesses, so if you were able to survive and rebound in 2010, more power to you. We analyze the past three years to understand trends, but we completely understand how difficult the economy has been. So, if a company has turned the corner and can show that its cash flow can support its debt payments at a multiple of 1.2 or 1.3 (meaning that it is taking in at least 20 percent more than the debt payment), the it is a good banking candidate.
4. Character. Do I want a new client who doesn't return phone calls and doesn't treat me or my team with respect? No. I want to work with solid, ethical people who are looking to build long lasting relationships. End of story. It's better for both sides.
5. Conditions are a tricky topic because a good company can perform well in a bad economy (and vice versa). So, let's leave that one alone.
I hope this clears up some of the confusion surrounding the crazy banking environment we live in.Thank you, Matt. I will add one more thing. I found American Chartered Bank through my accountant. He knows which banks are lending, what they are like to work with and what they are looking for. And he has a relationship with the banks that the banks don't want to mess up. If your accountant can't help you, and you need to borrow money, it might be time to consider finding a new accountant. If you are looking to borrow money, you probably need an accountant who does more than your tax return.
Jay Goltz owns five small businesses in Chicago.

        
A.R.C. Loans Gone But Hardly Forgotten
        
Did Wells Fargo Answer Your Lending Questions?
        
Can Government Help Small Businesses?
        
Is This the Way to Get Credit to Small Businesses?
        
Obama to Explain Small-Business Lending Proposal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (69%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); BASEBALL (52%) American Chartered Bank; banks; community banks; lending; small-business lending; Wells Fargo; Banking and Financial Institutions; Small Business; Wells Fargo & Co; Chicago (Ill); Wells Fargo & Co|WFC|NYSE; Thinking Entrepreneur

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); AMERICAN CHARTERED BANCORP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Wells Fargo & Co

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (91%) Wells Fargo & Co; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011



1104 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Mobile Payments Start-Up Square Raises $100 Million

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: Square has raised $100 million in a financing round led by Kleiner Perkins Caufield &#038; Byers, and a partner at the venture capital firm, Mary Meeker, is joining Square's board as part of the deal.

 BODY:
Square, the mobile payments start-up, has raised $100 million in a financing round led by Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers. As part of the deal, Mary Meeker, a partner at Kleiner Perkins, will join Square's board.
"Square has a great product with extensibility which we believe has the potential to have a lasting impact on how people make payments," Ms. Meeker said in a statement. "Square's product is fast, easy and fun for both consumers and vendors; a small business can be up and running within minutes."
 The investment comes as several large technology start-ups lock down large funding rounds or head for the public markets. A Square competitor, Dynamics, announced on Wednesday that it had raised $35 million in a financing round led by Bain Capital Ventures.
Over the last month, Square has been bulking up its board, adding three members since the start of June. In addition to Ms. Meeker, Square recently tapped Lawrence H. Summers, a former Treasury secretary and a chief economic adviser to President Obama, and Vinod Khosla, a well-known green technology venture capitalist.
A copy of the press release, announcing the transaction, is below:Square Raises $100 Million in Series C Financing
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers Leads Round for Company Revolutionizing Transactions Across the US
SAN FRANCISCO - June 28, 2011 - Square, the company revolutionizing everyday transactions between buyers and sellers, announced today that it has secured $100 million in Series C financing. The round was led by new Square investor Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers with participation from Tiger Global Management, LLC.
Square launched in early 2010 as an innovative way for individuals and businesses to accept payments on their mobile devices using an elegant and easy-to-use card reader and application. The company has seen widespread adoption since its launch and helped hundreds of thousands of businesses across the country to grow with its free hardware.
"Square has a great product with extensibility which we believe has the potential to have a lasting impact on how people make payments," said Mary Meeker, Partner at KPCB. "Square's product is fast, easy and fun for both consumers and vendors; a small business can be up and running within minutes."
"Square is eager to continue our momentum and we are proud to have the support and expertise of KPCB among our team of investors and advisors," said Jack Dorsey, Square CEO. "Our goal is to empower everyone to accept payments anywhere, and we are on course to accelerate our growth in a meaningful way."
Square currently offers three products; the Square reader, register and card case. The Square reader takes only minutes to set up and enables anyone to accept payments anytime and anywhere on their iPhone, iPad and Android phones. The Square register for iPad serves as a full point of sale system for businesses to accept payments, track inventory, and share menu and location information. The Square card case is the neighborhood way to pay that enables individuals to open a tab at their favorite local merchants, store digital receipts, and browse nearby directory and menu listings.
Mary Meeker will be joining Square's board on behalf of KPCB. Square also added two new board members earlier this month; economist Larry Summers and Vinod Khosla, Founder of Khosla Ventures.

        
Welcome to Silicon Valley, Larry Summers 
        
Vinod Khosla Looks to Raise More Than $1 Billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FINANCING ROUNDS (92%); VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); EQUITY FINANCING (90%); MOBILE PAYMENTS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); SMARTPHONES (78%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); POINT OF SALE SYSTEMS (63%); TABLET COMPUTERS (61%) Lawrence H. Summers; Mary Meeker; Square; Vinod Khosla; Dorsey, Jack; Khosla, Vinod; Meeker, Mary; Obama, Barack; Summers, Lawrence H; Khosla Ventures; Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers; Square Inc; San Francisco (Calif); Financial Services; Technology; Top Headline 2; Venture Capital

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (93%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Khosla Ventures; Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers; Square Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%)

PERSON: VINOD KHOSLA (90%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (85%) Dorsey, Jack; Khosla, Vinod; Meeker, Mary; Obama, Barack; Summers, Lawrence H

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1105 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Can't Take Brooklyn Out of Blankfein

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: The annual benefit dinner for the Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, a nonprofit organization with roots dating back to Robert F. Kennedy, gave its annual Founders Award to Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman Sachs' chief executive, who grew up in Brooklyn.

 BODY:
When you visit Bed-Stuy, you don't necessarily think of Goldman Sachs.
And yet, the gritty Brooklyn neighborhood known best as the birthplace of hip-hop stars including Jay-Z and Talib Kweli got a boost from the world's largest investment bank on Monday. The annual benefit dinner for the Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, a nonprofit organization with roots dating back to Robert F. Kennedy, gave its annual Founders Award to Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman's chief executive.
 The dinner, held in an event space overlooking the Hudson River at Manhattan's Chelsea Piers, was a by-the-numbers Wall Street gala. Guests dined on summer vegetables, pumpkin soup and beef filets weighing down beds of spinach and potatoes. All together, more than 400 donors attended, including boldface names like Kenneth Chenault, chief executive of American Express; David G. Offensend, the co-founder of Evercore Partners; and a former New York governor, David A. Paterson.
"Look at the guest list here!" exclaimed Mr. Paterson. "I thought for a second I was at the New York Public Library dinner."
The event was expected to raise nearly $1 million for the Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, an organization founded in 1967 as part of an urban development initiative started by New York senators Robert F. Kennedy and Jacob K. Javits.
Mr. Blankfein, who grew up in Brooklyn's Linden projects, gave brief remarks praising the foundation, and highlighting the work of Goldman's Urban Investment Group, which finances projects including a mixed-income housing project in Bed-Stuy last year.
"Seeing the progress and revitalization in Bedford Stuyvesant is nothing less than extraordinary," Mr. Blankfein said. "Bricks and mortar are really quite tangible."
Mr. Blankfein could use a little revitalization himself. Shortly after the dinner, he was named "Worst Person in the World" by Keith Olbermann on the anchor's Current TV show, in connection to reported job cuts at the bank's American branch while hiring in Singapore. 
But in this room, at least, he was a hero.
"It's strange we're honoring Goldman tonight, because they honor us with their contributions to Bed-Stuy," said Joseph G. Sponholz, a retired vice chairman of Chase Manhattan Bank and current Restoration Corporation board member. "They've been fabulous."
"Lloyd has never lost perspective on who he is and where he came from," said Mr. Chenault of American Express.
In addition to his award, Mr. Blankfein may have picked up a kindred spirit in Mr. Paterson. During a lull in the cocktail hour, he and the former governor were spotted arguing over who was more unpopular among the general public.
"I told Lloyd, 'You've been kicked around more than anyone!' " Mr. Paterson later recalled. "And here I thought I was No. 1."

        
Obama Presses Biggest Banks to Lend More
        
Wall St. vs. Sports: A Look at the Top Paychecks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (77%); RAP MUSIC (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANK BRANCHES (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); LIBRARIES (66%); CITIES (65%); GOVERNORS (57%) American Express; David A. Paterson; David G. Offensend; Evercore Partners; Goldman Sachs; Keith Olbermann; Kenneth Chenault; Lloyd Blankfein; Investment Banking; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); EVERCORE PARTNERS INC (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); EVR (NYSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (90%); DAVID PATERSON (90%); KENNETH I CHENAULT (75%); JAY-Z (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1106 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: In U.S. Monetary Policy, a Boon to Banks

BYLINE: JESSE EISINGER


HIGHLIGHT: The federal government, in ways explicit and implicit, profoundly subsidizes and shelters the banking industry, and the protection is so well established that we barely notice it anymore.

 BODY:
The most pronounced development in banking today is that executives have become bolder as their business has gotten worse.
The economy is clearly weaker than expected, and housing prices are falling throughout the land, eroding bank asset values. Yet regulators are on their heels in Washington as bankers and their lobbyists push back against the postcrisis regulations, even publicly condemning the new rules.
In a well-covered exchange, Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, challenged Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, about the costs and benefits of the Dodd-Frank rules. More attention has been paid to the banker's audacity, but the response of the world's most powerful banking regulator was more troubling. Mr. Bernanke scraped and bowed in apology without mentioning the staggering costs of the crisis the banks led us into.
 So this is a good occasion to step way back to understand just how good the banks have it today.
The federal government, in ways explicit and implicit, profoundly subsidizes and shelters the banking industry. True since the 1930s, it is much more so today. And that makes Mr. Dimon no capitalist colossus astride the Isle of Manhattan, but one of the great welfare queens in America.
The protection is so well established that we barely notice it anymore. The government supervises bank activities and guarantees deposits. When people walk into a bank, they assume it is as safe as their local supermarket.
Banks are also the mechanism through which we express economic policy, especially as fiscal stimulus has been eliminated as an option. The result is that the government pays a "vig" to banks in order to reach its policy goals.
When the Federal Reserve lowers interest rates to help buoy the economy during a slowdown, banks are the first beneficiaries. As the Fed lowers short-term rates, banks borrow cheaply and lend out for a lot more, making any new lending highly profitable (assuming the banks make good loans). This is classic monetary policy, and supported nearly universally. But let's not pretend that it isn't a boon to banks.
Some think bolstering banks' fortunes is a major goal, not a side effect.
"The Fed not only wants to stimulate the economy but also to recapitalize the banks, and this is a stealth technique to do it," said Herbert M. Allison Jr., a former investment banker who has turned banking apostate in a new white paper called "The Megabanks Mess," published as a Kindle Single. The reason "banks aren't doing more lending is that they still hold a lot of troubled assets that tie up equity."
Then there are the more subtle subsidies and protections. Take regulatory forbearance. In 2009, regulators gave banks a gift on their commercial real estate loans. They allowed banks to look primarily at whether the loans were current, rather than at whether the underlying value of the property had declined. Of course, given the commercial real estate collapse, this had the effect of protecting banks from write-downs.
Banks and regulators say this is justified because an underwater borrower isn't necessarily going to default. True, but it's hard to see how those borrowers - and therefore the banks - are better off for the crash in their collateral.
Commercial real estate is the least of it. The government is profoundly subsidizing the housing market, too. Hardly a loan gets made today by a bank that isn't guaranteed by either Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or the Federal Housing Administration. There is no subprime mortgage business outside of the F.H.A. When banks make mortgages and sell the credit risk to the government, they make a quick, safe profit.
The first effect of these policies, for better or worse, is to keep a floor under the housing market. But it also helps banks that own trillions in real estate assets that the government is propping up.
Another way taxpayers coddle the biggest banks is by implicitly guaranteeing their derivatives business. JPMorgan, widely viewed as safe and well managed, is a huge beneficiary here. It had $79 billion worth of derivatives on its books in the first quarter. Even if it's hedged, prudent and has thin margins, it's still going to throw off a nice chunk of profits.
Institutions on the other side of these trades wouldn't enter contracts without believing that they have some underlying protection - protection that comes from the government.
"No sensible person would put a nickel on deposit in the normal course given the enormity and opacity of the derivatives portfolios," said Amar Bhide, a former trader and business professor at the Fletcher School. "It's entirely a function of deposit insurance and the implicit guarantee that the JPMorgan counterparties have."
The government's actions in the financial crisis only cemented that certainty. Counterparties and investors that were previously not guaranteed, like holders of money market funds, were protected at every turn.
This bailout never ended. "In effect, we nationalized the biggest banks years ago," Mr. Allison said. "We implicitly guaranteed them. The taxpayers are still the ultimate owners of the risk in those banks - they just don't get equity returns for that ownership."
So when taxpayers hear a bank chief, like Jamie Dimon, complaining, it's worth keeping in mind that his 10-figure paycheck is largely coming courtesy of us.

        
Two Views on Bank Rules: Salvation and Jobkillers
        
How Dimon Played on Wall Street

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); LOBBYING (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); INTEREST RATES (63%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (63%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%) Ben Bernanke; Jamie Dimon; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Bernanke, Ben S; Dimon, James; Banking and Financial Institutions; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; The Trade

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); JAMES DIMON (90%); HERBERT M ALLISON (55%) Bernanke, Ben S; Dimon, James

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1107 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C.'s Trial of Rajat Gupta Is Delayed for Six Months

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Behind-the-scenes haggling between the Justice Department and the S.E.C. could be behind the postponement, legal experts say.

 BODY:
8:17 p.m. | Updated 
The curious case of Rajat K. Gupta just got curiouser.
Mr. Gupta, the former Goldman Sachs director and onetime head of McKinsey & Company, was scheduled to stand trial on July 18 on civil charges that he had leaked corporate secrets to Raj Rajaratnam, the billionaire hedge fund manager convicted of insider trading last month.
But the trial has been delayed for at least six months, according to two people familiar with the case who would discuss it only on the condition of anonymity.
The lengthy postponement in the case, brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission, raises questions about the fate of Mr. Gupta, the most prominent business executive ensnared by the government's insider-trading crackdown.
The United States attorney's office in Manhattan, which has been investigating Mr. Gupta's role in the case for at least three years, named Mr. Gupta a co-conspirator of Mr. Rajaratnam's but has not charged him criminally.
Just a week before Mr. Rajaratnam's trial began, the S.E.C. brought an unusual civil administrative proceeding against Mr. Gupta, accusing him of tipping Mr. Rajaratnam about confidential results at Goldman and Procter & Gamble, where he also served as a director. Among the tips was news that Berkshire Hathaway, run by Warren E. Buffett, had agreed to invest $5 billion in Goldman at the peak of the financial crisis, the S.E.C. said.
Gary P. Naftalis, a lawyer for Mr. Gupta, has called the S.E.C.'s case "totally baseless."
Mr. Gupta played a starring role at Mr. Rajaratnam's trial. Although he did not take the witness stand, the jury heard Mr. Gupta's name throughout the testimony. They listened to a wiretap in which Mr. Gupta told Mr. Rajaratnam about secret Goldman board discussions. They also heard a recording of Mr. Rajaratnam telling a colleague that a Goldman director had leaked the bank's earnings to him.
It is unclear why federal prosecutors have not charged Mr. Gupta, but the government appears to have a weaker criminal case against him than it did against some of Mr. Rajaratnam's other co-conspirators.
Certain evidentiary rules could prohibit prosecutors from using two incriminating wiretaps on which Mr. Rajaratnam told colleagues about tips he had received about Goldman. Without those tapes, the government would be forced to rely on more circumstantial evidence at trial - like phone bills and trading records - to establish Mr. Gupta's guilt.
In the S.E.C.'s civil proceeding, which is tried not before a jury but an S.E.C. administrative law judge in Washington, the agency has a lower burden of proof than federal prosecutors would have in a criminal case. The S.E.C. also would not be subject to the rules of evidence that in a criminal trial could make the case against Mr. Gupta more difficult.
Lawyers for Mr. Gupta have sued the S.E.C. to get his case moved to federal court, contending that the agency violated his right to jury trial by bringing the administrative proceeding. That lawsuit, which is before Judge Jed S. Rakoff in Federal District Court in Manhattan, is not the reason for the suspension of Mr. Gupta's S.E.C. trial, according to people familiar with the case.
So what is the cause for the long delay? No one will say. Mr. Naftalis, Mr. Gupta's lawyer, declined to comment, as did spokesmen for the S.E.C. and the United States attorney's office.
Behind-the-scenes dickering between the Justice Department and the S.E.C. could be behind the postponement, legal experts say. The United States attorney's office in Manhattan had tried unsuccessfully to get the S.E.C. to delay bringing its civil action against Mr. Gupta until the conclusion of Mr. Rajaratnam's trial, according to court filings. Now, if federal prosecutors are still weighing charges against Mr. Gupta, they could again be asking the S.E.C. to hold off.
"The timing of civil and criminal proceedings is never preordained, but typically a matter of negotiations between the S.E.C. and federal prosecutors," said Eli J. Richardson, a white-collar defense lawyer at Bass, Berry & Sims and a former prosecutor. "The substantial delay in Gupta's trial without public explanation suggests that's what's likely going on here."

        
Galleon Jurors Hear Tape Discussing Call of Goldman Director
        
Blankfein Describes Financial Crisis Board Meetings at Galleon Trial

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (78%); WITNESSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BURDENS OF PROOF (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); WIRETAPPING (73%); TELEPHONE RATES (72%); JUDGES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (69%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (57%) Goldman Sachs; Insider Trading; Jed S. Rakoff; McKinsey & Company; Raj Rajaratnam; Rajat K. Gupta; Securities and Exchange Commission; United States Attorney's Office; Warren E. Buffett; Gupta, Rajat K.; Rajaratnam, Raj; Suits and Litigation; Justice Department; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (55%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%) Justice Department; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); BRK.B (NYSE) (55%); BRK.A (NYSE) (55%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (92%); WARREN BUFFETT (56%) Gupta, Rajat K.; Rajaratnam, Raj

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1108 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: June 29, 1995 | U.S. Shuttle Docks at Russian Space Station

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: On June 29, 1995, Atlantis and the Russian space station Mir docked, forming the largest man-made satellite ever to orbit the Earth.

 BODY:
On June 29, 1995, the shuttle Atlantis and the Russian space station Mir docked, forming the largest man-made satellite ever to orbit the Earth.
The New York Times article about the event noted the broader significance: "The docking was a picture-perfect start to what American and Russian space officials see as decades of cooperative work in space, including the building of an international outpost bigger than a football field and perhaps one day voyaging to other planets."
The Atlantis spent five days docked with the Mir as the 10 astronauts conducted biomedical and scientific investigations. At the end of the trip, the three cosmonauts who had been living on Mir left in the Atlantis with the five NASA astronauts, leaving the two Atlantis cosmonauts in their place. It was the first in-orbit change-out of shuttle crew.
Mir had been launched into space by the Soviet Union in 1986,with a planned mission of five years. It lasted three times longer than expected, being finally taken out of service in 2001 after the International Space Station was launched.
Connect to Today:
In June 2009, Boston.com's The Big Picture featured this spectacular set of photos, titled "Recent Scenes from the International Space Station." Which ones capture your imagination most? Why?
What is the future of United States space exploration? An April 2010 New York Times article set forth President Obama's ambitions for the space program.
Early in his term, President George W. Bush had called for a return to the Moon and Mars. In light of the subsequent recession, President Obama called for the cancellation of the program that would bring man back the Moon and urged a greater role for private industry in bringing passengers to the International Space Station and eventually, to Mars. The article reports on the political machinations involved, including strong objections from members of Congress whose states benefit from NASA programs.
In light of the multiyear, and even multidecade, commitments of billions of dollars necessary to support major initiatives of the United States space program, how could the process of setting such initiatives be changed so that they are less subject to prevailing political and economic pressures? Should the exploration of space be a global effort?
Learn more about what happened in history on June 29 
Learn more about Historic Headlines and our collaboration with findingDulcinea 

        
Test Yourself | History, Jan. 28, 2011
        
Scientists and Space Tourists
        
Test Yourself | Math, Dec. 13, 2010
        
Tourists in Space
        
Test Yourself | July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPACE STATIONS (94%); SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACECRAFT (91%); SPACE SHUTTLE (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%) Atlantis; Space; Space and Cosmos; Space Shuttle; Historic Headlines

COMPANY: MIR AS (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (94%); MARS (92%); EARTH'S MOON (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1109 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: The Parties of No

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Intransigence and unrealism are bipartisan afflictions.

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, Fareed Zakaria wrote an essay for Time Magazine dismissing American conservatism for having "lost touch with reality." Whereas once the Right tried to grapple with the world as it actually is, he lamented, "conservatives now espouse ideas drawn from abstract principles with little regard to the realities of America's present or past."
Zakaria's critique landed some real blows. On economic policy, certainly, many conservative politicians seem to be caught in a supply-side time warp, where the year is always 1979 and the prescription is always tax cuts and sound money. (The less said about the 2012 Republican field's domestic policy vision, the better ...) But like a lot of laments about Republican intransigence and right-wing anti-intellectualism, his piece was written as though America's other political party doesn't exist.
For instance, Zakaria complained that "today conservatives shy away from the sensible ideas of the Bowles-Simpson commission on deficit reduction, because those ideas are too deeply rooted in, well, reality." But that's not how I remember the Bowles-Simpson debate: The conservative critiques of the deficit commission, while real enough, were muted and respectful compared to the immediate and bristling hostility that greeted the proposal from the left. And this was the Obama White House's deficit commission, remember! (Imagine what Zakaria would have said about right-wing unrealism if a Republican president had distanced himself, as Obama swiftly did, from his own deficit commission's recommendations.)
Or consider what happened yesterday, when Tom Coburn and Joe Lieberman teamed up to release a blueprint for Medicare reform. Their proposal is much more self-consciously centrist than Paul Ryan's controversial overhaul: Instead of converting Medicare to a voucher/premium support payment and then aggressively indexing the subsidy, Coburn-Lieberman gradually raises the retirement age to 67 (contingent, note, on Obamacare remaining law) and increases means-testing for wealthy retirees. With or without tax increases, a reform along these lines will pretty much have to happen for Medicare to remain solvent over the long haul. But don't tell the Democratic leadership:What they propose doesn't seek to replace Medicare with a private insurance scheme as does the GOP budget. Nonetheless it has already been rejected by the top Democrats on Capitol Hill -- House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV).
In an official statement Pelosi said, "It is unfair to ask seniors to get less in benefits and wait longer to get onto Medicare - all while Republicans back tax breaks for Big Oil and corporations that ship American jobs overseas. Just like the Republican plan to end Medicare, this proposal is unacceptable, especially for struggling middle-class Americans."
At a Capitol press conference Tuesday, Reid called it a "bad idea." "I think we should not be cutting benefits now," he added.Now maybe Republican stubbornness on taxes is worse than Democratic stubbornness on entitlement reform: You can certainly make that case. (My current view is that the G.O.P.'s tax intransigence could have more short-term dangers - it would be dumb and reckless if the Republican leadership ultimately refuses a deal on the debt ceiling because it includes some loophole-closing for high earners, for instance - but that the Democrats' Medicare intransigence is much more dangerous in the long run.) But at the very least, when it comes to America's looming fiscal liabilities, it's hard to argue that conservatives have a monopoly on unrealism.
It's also important to remember - for pundits, especially - that a lot of what looks like frustrating head-in-sand anti-intellectualism on both sides of the aisle is just the way the two parties jockey for position, in the short and longer term alike. (For instance, as I've argued before, the Republican resistance to tax hikes in the current deficit negotiations has to be understood in light of the scheduled tax increases that loom if President Obama gets re-elected.) From the debt ceiling to entitlement reform, the most important question is whether a deal gets done, not whether the leaders of both parties sound like Brookings Institution roundtable participants during the negotiation period. And as depressing as a lot of the absolutist rhetoric from both sides may be, I'm hopeful that the deficit debate has at least taken a small step forward from the politics of evasion.

        
The President's Debt-Ceiling Strategy
        
Taxes and the American Future
        
Is Paul Ryan's Budget Brave?
        
The Tax Deal's Consequences
        
The Politics of Simpson-Bowles (II)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MEDICARE (88%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (86%); LIBERALISM (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RETIREMENT AGE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (60%) conservatism; Domestic Policy; liberalism; taxes; the deficit; Tom Coburn

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); TOM COBURN (77%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); HARRY REID (55%); JOE LIEBERMAN (55%); NANCY PELOSI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1110 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: On Fuel Efficiency, Environmental Groups May Urge California to Go It Alone

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: The groups would encourage California, a bellwether state, to reject the federally proposed fuel-efficiency and greenhouse standards for 2017-25 if the standard were deemed too weak.

 BODY:
According to numerous reports, the Obama administration has advanced a federal fuel efficiency fleet-average standard of 56.2 m.p.g. for 2025. But while an official number from the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is not expected until September, the reported White House disclosure has sparked intense jockeying among automakers and environmental groups, and has retrained focus on California.
In 2009, the state placed its clean-car mandates on hold to adopt a fleet-average standard set by the federal government for 2012-16. That standard called for a gradual strengthening of Corporate Average Fuel Economy, known as CAFE, that would culminate in a 35.5 m.p.g. fleet-wide requirement in 2016.
The next phase of the federal program would cover the years 2017 through 2025. Automakers, citing the challenge and expense of building large numbers of electric cars and charging stations, want fuel-efficiency and greenhouse-emissions standards to be slowly phased in over the nine-year period. The companies also want the next phase of the White House's efficiency initiative to include a midterm program review.
Meanwhile, environmental groups, some of which say that the 2017-25 program's goals are achievable with only a modest number of plug-in cars, want a more rapid ramp-up, and are concerned about possible loopholes in the proposed midterm review. If the fleet-wide benchmarks come in below expectations, the groups pledge to push California to revive its separate clean-car mandates -- a prospect that has few fans either in the White House or among automakers.
"It's more than just wanting to have California at the table for the current negotiations; we want to see California's goals fully integrated into a single national program," said Gloria Bergquist, a vice president of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, an advocacy group representing 12 automakers. "We want to avoid a patchwork of different regulations, and that's why we supported the integrated 2012-16 program," she said in a telephone interview.
Dan Becker, the director of the Safe Climate Campaign at the Center for Auto Safety, frames a California-led retreat from the looming federal standard in blunter terms.
"California is the shotgun in the closet, because it has the right to set its own emission standards, and 12 states and the District of Columbia follow its lead," he said in a telephone interview. "The only thing the auto companies want less than a strong federal standard is a stronger state standard. But the threat of a separate California program can ensure that the loopholes go away."
Greg Martin, a Washington spokesman for General Motors, said in a statement that G.M. is committed to a national standard "that moves the needle but doesn't wreck a customer's bank account or the industry's resurgence in the process."
According to Ms. Bergquist, a high fuel-economy goal would turn the program "into an electric car mandate, and we will need sufficient lead time to build millions of electric car batteries and charging stations." She emphasized that the outlook for E.V. sales was uncertain, and after more than a decade on the market, hybrid cars had achieved relatively small market share. "The best thing Jerry Brown can do is encourage Californians to buy very large numbers of these vehicles to get them on the road," she said.
Environmentalists want Governor Brown to do more. "He has the opportunity to help deliver the single biggest step the nation can take to cut global warming pollution, put more money in consumers' pockets and cut America's oil addiction," said David Friedman, deputy program director of the clean vehicles program at the Union of Concerned Scientists. "That will only happen if California makes sure that there's a real standard on the table."
Regardless of whether California approves or disapproves of the coming federal standard, Stanley Young, a spokesman for the California Air Resources Board, says the state has the power to go its own way.
"We retain the authority under the Clean Air Act to set stricter than federal standards," he said in a telephone interview. "We would need an E.P.A. waiver to enforce our state regulations. But until the Bush administration denied us such a waiver, we had never been turned down for one in over four decades."

        
California Moves on Carbon Emissions Ahead of E.P.A.
        
Traffic Deaths Drop to Lowest in 60 Years
        
E.P.A.'s E15 Pump Labels Raise Ire of Automakers
        
Rental Car Industry Urges Two-Tier System for Vehicle Recalls
        
Safety Agency Widens Inquiry Into Repairs of Rental Cars

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (92%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (88%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (71%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%) Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers; CAFE; CAFE standards; California; Center for Auto Safety; E.P.A.; n.h.t.s.a.; Fuel Efficiency; Industry News

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%); CENTER FOR AUTO SAFETY (59%); NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1111 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: News Corporation Sells MySpace for $35 Million

BYLINE: BRIAN STELTER


HIGHLIGHT: MySpace, the long-suffering Web site that the News Corporation bought six years ago for $580 million, was sold Wednesday to the advertising network Specific Media for roughly $35 million.

 BODY:
8:14 p.m. | Updated MySpace, the long-suffering Web site that the News Corporation bought six years ago for $580 million, was sold Wednesday to the advertising network Specific Media for roughly $35 million.
The News Corporation, which is controlled by Rupert Murdoch, had been trying since last winter to rid itself of the unprofitable unit, which was a casualty of changing tastes and may be a cautionary tale for social companies like Zynga and LinkedIn that are currently enjoying sky-high valuations.
Relief over the sale was palpable on Wednesday, and not just at the News Corporation. Wall Street "just wanted it done, because it's been a real drag on growth," said Michael Nathanson, a media sector analyst for Nomura Securities.
Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but the News Corporation said that it would retain a minority stake. Specific Media said it had brought on board the artist Justin Timberlake as a part owner and an active player in MySpace's future, but said little else about how the site would change.
The sale closes a complex chapter in the history of the Internet and of the News Corporation, which was widely envied by other media companies when it acquired MySpace in 2005. At that time, MySpace was the world's fastest-growing social network, with 20 million unique visitors each month in the United States. That figure soon soared to 70 million, but the network could not keep pace with Facebook, which overtook MySpace two years ago.
As users fled MySpace, so, too, did advertisers. The market research firm eMarketer estimates that the site will earn about $183 million in worldwide ad revenue this year, down from $605 million at its peak, when the site introduced many Web users and many advertisers to the concept of social networking.
"It's a shame that MySpace's value has diminished so severely since the acquisition; MySpace's pioneering of social networking (now referred to as social media) will always be revered as igniting a new medium," Richard Rosenblatt, the chairman of MySpace at the time of the sale to the News Corporation, said in an e-mail.
Instead of envy, the News Corporation's bet on MySpace now provokes punch lines. Tom Freston, who was fired as the chief executive of Viacom in part for failing to buy MySpace, joked in an interview with CNBC earlier this year that "I'm still waiting for a thank-you note" from the Viacom chairman, Sumner M. Redstone.
Mr. Freston, who was in Iceland on Wednesday and said he was smiling at the news of an impending MySpace sale, declined to comment.
News Corporation executives declined interview requests on Wednesday.
It is not clear whether MySpace itself was profitable for the company. The division that houses MySpace and other digital properties has turned a profit only once in the last six years. An advertising deal with Google helped the company to recoup what it spent on MySpace in the first place, but the site became a burden on the company's earnings; by last year executives were calling the losses unacceptable. Mr. Nathanson called the site a "headache."
What doomed the site? Lee Brenner, the former director of MySpace's Impact section who is now the publisher of HyperVocal, wrote in a blog post Tuesday, "I'm sure most employees (former or current) will argue that it was poor management, or a need to hit revenue targets once News Corp. took over, or a bottleneck in the technology department, or lack of resources given to their division, or a poor public relations effort, etc., that set the course of MySpace's downfall.
"Any number of these could be true," he continued. "I suppose we'll never know for sure. It is most likely a combination of these factors, along with a 'low attention span' public. It probably didn't help to be doing business, and trying to grow, along with all of these issues, in the midst of a global economic crisis."
MySpace has tried to reboot itself several times, most recently as a social destination for music, movies and other media. It has not been abandoned altogether: it still has 35 million visitors a month in the United States, according to the measurement company comScore. Facebook has 157 million visitors a month in the United States.
"It's still one of the biggest pockets of traffic on the Internet, for the price," said a former MySpace executive who insisted on anonymity to maintain friendships and business relationships with the News Corporation.
Mr. Timberlake said in a statement about the sale that MySpace still had the potential to be the place on the Web where "fans can go to interact with their favorite entertainers, listen to music, watch videos, share and discover cool stuff and just connect."
Many of the current and former MySpace users who reacted to Wednesday's sale thought differently. Many compared MySpace to Friendster, a social network that was left for dead years ago.
In preparation for the change in ownership, many of MySpace's roughly 400 employees were dismissed on Wednesday. Mike Jones, the Web site's chief executive, said in an internal memorandum that he would depart in the next two months.
"Today should be a day," Sean Percival, a vice president at MySpace, wrote on Twitter Wednesday morning, before the sale announcement.
He followed up later in the day, telling his online followers that Wednesday would be his last day at the company. Seemingly referring to the site's rise and fall, he wrote: "It was a unique moment in time and an impossible problem to solve. Was proud to be a part of it."

        
Shark Week or Jump the Shark Week?
        
Murdoch Readies The Daily for Grand Unveiling
        
Sasha Frere-Jones, New Yorker's Music Critic, Will Be Editor at News Corp.'s iPad Newspaper
        
New Claims of Wrongdoing in Cable Fight
        
MySpace Co-President Leaving Company

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); DIVESTITURES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); DISMISSALS (60%) myspace; News Corp; rupert murdoch; Specific Media; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; MySpace.com; New Media

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); MYSPACE INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); VIACOM INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MySpace.com

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%); VIA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (73%); SUMNER REDSTONE (52%); JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ICELAND (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1112 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: 2012 Republicans Ignore Each Other, for Now

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The odd truth about this primary is that there really isn't one yet, in contrast to this time four years ago.

 BODY:
The odd truth about the 2012 Republican presidential primary is that there really isn't one yet.
If primary campaigns are meant to offer a clash of ideas from which a party's voters can pick their preferred candidate, the Republican contest hardly qualifies. Instead of striving to define each other, the nine Republicans who have officially jumped into the race are primarily focused on drawing contrasts with President Obama.
"This is a powerful coalition the left fears," Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota said during her announcement speech in Waterloo, Iowa, on Monday. "And they should because, make no mistake about it, President Obama is a one-term president!"
Collectively, the Republican Party's leading White House hopefuls appear to have concluded that voters are less interested in how they each might differ on Medicare reform, war policy, debt reduction or even abortion. Rather, they seem convinced that Republicans merely want an "anti-Obama" who has the ability to retake the Oval Office and reverse the policies of the last three years.
They may be on to something, but a New York Times/CBS News poll suggests that none of them has yet made the case that he or she is that candidate. 
The poll released Wednesday morning shows that Americans remain highly critical of Mr. Obama's handling of the economy and still believe - by more than a two-to-one margin - that the country is headed in the wrong direction. But the poll also found that two-thirds of Republican voters were not excited by any of their candidates. And none of the hopefuls earned enthusiastic support from more than 8 percent of the Republican base.
Those numbers are sure to change as the fall election season arrives and more Americans start tuning in to the election.
And the relatively hands-off approach toward one another is likely to end, too, as the candidates and their strategists come to the inevitable conclusion that being the best at beating up on Mr. Obama is unlikely to earn them a ticket to the Republican National Convention next summer.
But for the moment, the contrast with four years ago is striking.
By June 2007, Mr. Obama and his chief Democratic rival, Senator Hillary Clinton, having both entered the race earlier in the year than the current Republican field, were well into their long and nasty campaign. It was this week, four years ago, that Mr. Obama's campaign circulated a memo describing his rival as "Hillary Clinton (D-Punjab)." Mr. Obama later called the memo, a dig at Mrs. Clinton's ties to the Indian community, a "dumb" mistake.
June 2007 was also the month that Senator John McCain of Arizona acquired the Web site domain www.mittvsfact.com, an indication of the already heated clashes between Mr. McCain and Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts who was making his first bid for the presidency.
"Pandering for votes on this issue while offering no solution to the problem amounts to doing nothing," Mr. McCain said of Mr. Romney's position on immigration. "And doing nothing is silent amnesty."
That same month, Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York City, mocked Mr. McCain's stand on the immigration issue. John Edwards, the former Democratic senator from North Carolina, took aim at both Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton for their positions on the Iraq war. And even Jim Gilmore, the former governor of Virginia and a short-lived Republican hopeful, was taking shots at the front-runners. Mr. Gilmore coined the term "Rudy McRomney" to describe his contempt for them all.
"We've gotten a little mileage" out of that one, Mr. Gilmore admitted during a Republican debate four years ago.
The current Republican contest is tame by comparison.
Tim Pawlenty, the former governor of Minnesota, has been the most aggressive - if you can call it that - in going after his rivals. Stealing a page from Mr. Gilmore, Mr. Pawlenty coined the term "Obamneycare" to call attention to the similarities between the health care plans of Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama.
But even Mr. Pawlenty has pulled many of his punches. He declined to repeat the phrase during a debate earlier this month, and has spent plenty of time going after Mr. Obama. In a foreign policy speech on Tuesday, he devoted only a sentence or two to questioning the "isolationist" tendencies of his Republican rivals. The rest of the speech was an attack on Mr. Obama's Middle East foreign policy.
Mr. Romney has virtually ignored the other Republicans in the race, acting as if they simply don't exist. It's as if Mr. Romney has decided to begin the general election campaign a year early - with himself as the nominee.
Jon Huntsman, the former governor of Utah, declared openly in his speech that he would campaign with a new kind of "civility" that appears to mean that he will make few comparisons between himself and his rivals.
And even Mrs. Bachmann, who has taken a few shots at the others in the race, has reserved most of her criticism for the Democrat already in the White House.
For the moment, the 2012 Republican contest seems more like an extended press conference sponsored by the Republican National Committee, designed to document the bill of particulars against the incumbent president.
But that can't last forever. At some point in January or February (we are still not sure of an exact date) Republican voters in Iowa will gather to pick a caucus winner and kick off the primary season.
By then, there should be plenty of differences to weigh.

        
2008: Times/CBS News Poll Results
        
Lots of Talk, but Still No 2012 Republican Candidates
        
2008: New Time Poll 
        
2008: Primary Maneuvers
        
2008: Iraq and All Over the Map

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (93%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); MEDICARE (53%) 2008; 2012; 2012 presidential campaign; barack obama; CONSERVATIVES; Democrats; Hillary Rodham Clinton; john edwards; john mccain; Michele Bachmann; mitt romney; new york times poll; polls; primaries; Republicans; rudy giuliani; tim pawlenty; Bachmann, Michele M; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Gilmore, James S; Giuliani, Rudolph W; McCain, John; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt; Iowa; Congress; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); MICHELE BACHMANN (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); TIM PAWLENTY (88%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%) Bachmann, Michele M; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Gilmore, James S; Giuliani, Rudolph W; McCain, John; Obama, Barack; Pawlenty, Tim; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Iowa

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1113 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Halted

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
Today's Times Just days ago, officials from the Obama administration staunchly defended plans for a survey in which "mystery shoppers" posing as patients would have called doctors' offices to gauge how difficult it was to secure appointments. On Tuesday, White House officials halted the project, saying it would be more of a political liability than it was worth, The Times's Robert Pear reports. Republicans and doctors criticized the project after an article about the program appeared Monday in The Times. Having been brought together primarily by what they oppose, Tea Party groups have had difficulty agreeing on what they stand for, The Times's Kate Zernike reports. Local disagreements - like one over school choice legislation in Pennsylvania - have threatened the party's cohesion, offering a look at the Tea Party's struggle to turn the potency it showed in the midterm elections into influence over state and local legislative battles. There may be no caucus for Iowa Democrats to vote in this election season, but that has not kept President Obama from sowing campaign seeds throughout the state. He visited an aluminum factory there on Tuesday to underline his commitment to creating manufacturing jobs, while his Republican opponents were in the state hammering away at his economic leadership. The president's presence suggests that the White House sees a political imperative to countering the anti-Obama arguments being made by the parade of Republican candidates in Iowa, the Times's Mark Landler reports. Things could get awkward Wednesday evening when President Obama welcomes guests to the White House for a gay pride reception, since he does not endorse gay marriage. Last week's vote to extend marriage rights to same-sex couples in New York has intensified pressure on the president to say where he stands, particularly after remarks at a Manhattan fund-raiser that disappointed and confused many gay rights advocates, The Times's Sheryl Gay Stolberg reports.Around the Web Mitt Romney would like to reschedule the presidential primary in Utah, The Salt Lake Tribune reports. Happenings Around Washington President Obama has scheduled a news conference for 11:30 a.m. Later on, he will greet Seattle's W.N.B.A. championship team, attend the White House reception celebrating L.G.B.T. Pride Month and go to a farewell dinner for Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates.

        
The Early Word: Convicted
        
The Early Word: Stealth 
        
The Weekend Word: Rejection
        
The Early Word: No Deal
        
The Early Word: Drawdown

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); COHABITATION (86%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); FUNDRAISING (74%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); LGBT RIGHTS (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (69%); MARRIAGE (68%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (66%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); SCHOOL CHOICE (54%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (54%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: KEARNS-TRIBUNE LLC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1114 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Republican Voters Lack Enthusiasm for Presidential Contenders, Poll Shows

BYLINE: MARJORIE CONNELLY


HIGHLIGHT: Republican voters are not satisfied with the candidates running for the Republican nomination and wish they had more choices, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll. None of the candidates currently hoping to challenge Barack Obama in 2012 has earned enthusiastic support from more than seven percent of Republican voters.

 BODY:
Republican voters are not satisfied with the candidates running for the Republican nomination and wish they had more choices, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll. None of the candidates currently hoping to challenge Barack Obama in 2012 has earned enthusiastic support from more than seven percent of Republican voters. 
At the same time, Americans are closely divided over Mr. Obama's handling of his job as president: 47 percent approve and 44 percent disapprove. With the exception of a short-lived jump in approval ratings following the death of Osama bin Laden, the public's evaluation of Mr. Obama's stewardship has remained steady -ranging from 44 percent to 49 percent over the past year. 
Americans are especially critical of the way Mr. Obama has handled the economy, though they are more likely to blame the Bush Administration and Wall Street for its dismal state than Mr. Obama. 
More than twice as many Americans say the country is seriously off on the wrong track as say it is headed in the right direction: 63 percent vs. 28 percent. Americans have been more gloomy than not about the direction of the country since 2003. The public's opinion about the country's direction was at its worst just before Mr. Obama was elected when nearly nine in ten Americans said the country was off on the wrong track. 
Bleak assessments of the economy and the country's direction along with a job approval rating below 50 percent are a potential danger signs for an incumbent. So far, though, the field of prospective Republican nominees has not stirred up much anticipation among voters. 
Nine candidates have officially declared they are running for Republican nomination. About 70 percent of Republican voters said they wished there were more candidates; only 23 percent said they were satisfied with the current field. 
When asked to name a Republican presidential candidate they were enthusiastic about right now, two-thirds of Republican voters said they were not excited by any of them. Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota did best, each named by 7 percent of Republican voters. 
Nine percent of conservative voters said they were enthusiastic about Mr. Romney; 7 percent said the same of Ms. Bachmann. Supporters of the tea party have similar opinions: 10 percent are enthusiastic about Mr. Romney and 8 percent are excited about Ms. Bachmann. 
These numbers are sure to change as the primaries draw closer. Currently, only 27 percent of all voters are paying a lot of attention to the presidential campaign. Looking forward to November 2012, most voters said they were no more or less enthusiastic about the election than usual. 
Four years ago, Times/CBS polls registered a similar lack of enthusiasm and attention in the campaign. As the election grew closer, both measures of voter interest rose. 
The telephone poll was conducted with 979 adults nationwide, of whom 886 said they were registered to vote. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 3 percentage points for all adults and for voters. For the 257 Republican voters, the margin of sampling error is plus or minus 6 percentage points. 
Additional results from this survey will be released after 6:30 P.M.

        
Presidential Hopefuls Rally the Right
        
2012 Republicans Ignore Each Other, for Now
        
Running Against Bachmann Poses Challenges for Male Rivals
        
Best Political Quotes of the Weekend
        
Romney Leads in Iowa Poll

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (96%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); CONSERVATISM (79%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (55%) Michele Bachmann; mitt romney; NYT CBS poll; President Barack Obama; Presidential Election of 2012; repubilcan primary; Republicans; Bachmann, Michele M; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Elections; Polls and Public Opinion; United States Politics and Government; Voting and Voters; Republican Party; Polling

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); MICHELE BACHMANN (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%) Bachmann, Michele M; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1115 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: President Obama Sets News Conference This Morning

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama is to take questions at a news conference at about 11:30 a.m.

 BODY:
President Obama will take questions from reporters this morning as Greece passed an austerity plan to avert economic turmoil, terrorists struck overnight in the capital of Afghanistan and the deadline neared for a deal to raise America's debt ceiling.
It will be Mr. Obama's first full news conference in almost three months and the first since Republican candidates for president have formally entered the race to turn him out of office next year.
The late-morning news conference at the White House will give Mr. Obama an opportunity to counter the Republican criticism that his economic policies have not worked. Speaking at a manufacturing plant in Iowa on Tuesday, Mr. Obama said two million private sector jobs had been created in the last 15 months. He is likely to repeat a similar mantra at the news conference.
But reporters are certain to pepper Mr. Obama with questions as well.
Among the likely queries: 
* Will he accept a deal with Republicans that does not include tax increases on the wealthy or the closure of tax loopholes for big corporations? Liberal Democrats say they are worried that Mr. Obama will sign onto a deal that includes large spending cuts and no tax increases.
* Do the overnight attacks in Kabul, Afghanistan, raise a concern about his decision to draw down American troops in that country?
* Does Mr. Obama support the move by his National Labor Relations Board to force Boeing to move workers out of a construction plant in South Carolina back to a unionized facility in Washington?
* What does Mr. Obama say to Congressional critics in both parties who say that the War Powers Resolution should apply to the American involvement in Libya, thus requiring a vote in Congress?
* With the president hosting a gay pride event at the White House this week, is he ready to declare his support for gay marriage? The decision by New York to legalize same-sex marriage has put more pressure on Mr. Obama, who has said his views on the subject are evolving.
* What does he think of the Republican field of candidates, who are spending most of their time attacking him? 
Stay with The Caucus for quick updates from the president's news conference and a more complete readout after it's over. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); TAX LAW (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); TERRORISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); MARRIAGE (62%); MARRIAGE LAW (62%) The 44th President

COMPANY: BOEING CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (54%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1116 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Obama: Republican Leaders Must Bend on Taxes

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama says the budget cannot be balanced with spending cuts alone, and that he expects a compromise to include some tax increases.

 BODY:
3:45 p.m. | Updated President Obama said Wednesday that he believed Republicans would concede to tax increases as part of a deficit reduction package in time to avoid a default on the nation's debt, and voiced exasperation at the lack of progress in negotiations between the administration and Congressional leaders.
"Call me naive," he told reporters at a midday news conference in the East Room of the White House. "But my expectation is that leaders are going to lead."
He accused the Republicans, who last week dropped out of negotiations on the budget, of avoiding tough decisions and said they were playing a dangerous game that could significantly affect the nation's struggling economy and capital markets and slow down private efforts to create jobs.
Mr. Obama repeatedly mocked tax breaks that he said were for "millionaires and billionaires, oil companies and corporate jet owners," saying that voters would not look kindly on Republican lawmakers who defended such breaks at the cost of cuts in popular programs like health care, education and food safety.
But he did not explicitly say that he would reject a deal that did not eliminate such breaks, saying that he believed his adversaries would eventually agree to what Democrats have called a "balanced approach" that included trillions of dollars in spending cuts along with tax increases.
"If you are a wealthy C.E.O. or hedge fund manager in America right now, your taxes are lower than they have ever been. They are lower than they have been since the 1950s. And they can afford it," Mr. Obama said. "You can still ride on your corporate jet. You're just going to have to pay a little more."
The speaker of the House, John A. Boehner, issued a blistering response, accusing the president of ignoring "legislative and economic reality" and of being AWOL in the debate over efforts to reduce national spending.
"His administration has been burying our kids and grandkids in new debt and offered no plan to rein in spending," Mr. Boehner said in a statement.
The speaker reiterated his opposition to tax increases and said Mr. Obama was "sorely mistaken" if he believed that tax increase would pass in the House. He vowed that House Republicans would block anything that includes increased taxes.
"The longer the president denies these realities, the more difficult he makes this process," Mr. Boehner said. "If the president embraces a measure that meets these tests, he has my word that the House will act on it. Anything less cannot pass the House."
Questions about the looming debt deadline dominated the early part of the news conference, the first in several months for the president. But Mr. Obama was also asked about a series of other domestic and foreign policy issues.
On the American intervention in Libya, Mr. Obama defended his administration's actions against Congressional critics who say the military activities there violate the War Powers Act, which requires Congress to give its formal approval.
"We have engaged in a limited operation to help a lot of people against one of the worst tyrants in the world," Mr. Obama said, deflecting a question about whether he believes the War Powers Act is constitutional. "This suddenly becomes the cause celebre for some folks in Congress? C'mon."
On the issue of same-sex marriage, Mr. Obama declined to say whether he had changed his mind about his personal opposition. But he said New York's decision to legalize same sex marriage was a "good thing."
"That's exactly how things should work," he said, noting that different communities will come to different conclusions on the issue. "I think we are moving in a direction of greater equality, and I think that's a good thing."
Mr. Obama said his administration had done more than all of his predecessors combined to advance the rights of gay men and lesbians in America. Mr. Obama is scheduled to host a gay pride event at the White House on Wednesday afternoon.
But his remarks are likely to disappoint gay activists, who were hoping that Mr. Obama would say that his personal opposition to gay marriage had ended. In the past, the president has said his position is "evolving."
On the economy, Mr. Obama sounded dire warnings about the consequences of delaying a resolution on the debt negotiations, and expressed exasperation with Republicans in Congress, saying they needed to "do their job" instead of blaming him for a lack of leadership.
In a remarkable display of frustration, Mr. Obama said he was "amused" by Republican comments that he had not offered a clear direction in the effort to cut the budget and increase the nation's debt ceiling.
"They are in one week, they are out one week," the president said, in a week that the House is out of session. "You need to be here. I've been here. I've been doing Afghanistan and Bin Laden and the Greek crisis. You stay here. Let's get it done. All right, I think you know my feelings about that."
Mr. Obama compared the lack of resolution in the debt talks to his daughters' ability to get their homework done a day early.
"They're not waiting til the night before. They are not pulling all-nighters," Mr. Obama said. "They need to do their job. They need to go ahead and make the tough choices."
Mr. Obama also mocked Republicans in Congress who have questioned whether the Aug. 2 deadline set by the Treasury Department for a default on the debt has been hyped for political reasons. He said the people making those claims would force the government to pick and choose who they would pay and who they would leave hanging.
"This is not a situation where Congress is going to say we won't buy this car or we won't take the vacation. They took the vacation. They bought the car. And now they are saying, maybe we don't have to pay," Mr. Obama said. "If the United States government, for the first time, cannot pay its bills, if it defaults, then the consequences for the U.S. economy will be significant and unpredictable. And that is not a good thing."
In his opening statement, Mr. Obama said his administration was making efforts to spur job creation, but challenged Congress to pass bills that would help private companies add to their payrolls. He cited bills that would make it easier to get patents on inventions, expand loans to private businesses for hiring and pass long-delayed trade deals."I urge Congress to act on these ideas right now," he said.
On the debt talks, Mr. Obama said he was open to extending payroll tax cuts and other tax breaks that would help spur economic growth in the short term. "I think that it makes perfect sense for us to take a look at can we extend the payroll tax cut another year?" the president told reporters. "What we need to do is to restore business confidence and the confidence of the American people that we are on track."
The president declined to comment on a controversial decision by the National Labor Relations Board to go to court to contest a decision by Boeing to build a nonunion plant in South Carolina. The decision by the independent agency has been criticized by Republicans as an infringement on right-to-work states and on the right of corporate managers to decide where to do business. The case is before a judge in Seattle.
But the president acknowledged the political sensitivities of the issue at a time when people are clamoring for the kinds of jobs that the Boeing plant would create. "If they are choosing to relocate here in the U.S., that's a good thing," Mr. Obama said. "What defies common sense is the notion that we would be shutting down a plant or laying off workers because labor and management can't come to an agreement."
Asked about concern in the military that the policy on how to handle terrorist suspects captured abroad was unclear, Mr. Obama said that his "top priority" was "to make sure that we are apprehending those who would attack the United States, and that we are getting all the intelligence that we can."
But he said that "frankly, there are going to be different dispositions of the case depending on the situation."
Pressed a second time on his personal views of same-sex marriage, Mr. Obama declined to elaborate, saying, "I'm not going to make news on that today" and telling the reporter who asked, Laura Meckler of The Wall Street Journal, "Good try, though."
Later, Mr. Obama added: "I'll keep on giving you the same answer until I give you a different one. And that won't be today."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); JOB CREATION (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); FOOD SAFETY (52%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Obama, Barack; The 44th President; The White House

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1117 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Seeks $600 Million Refund From CityTime Company

BYLINE: DAVID CHEN


HIGHLIGHT: The mayor has requested that the company that managed the troubled automated payroll project refund the city all the money it has been paid for the project since 2003.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg asked on Wednesday that the company that managed the troubled CityTime automated payroll project refund the city $600 million - all the money it has been paid for the project since 2003.
In a letter to Walter P. Havenstein, chief executive officer of Science Applications International Corporation, Mr. Bloomberg cited the recent indictment of Gerard Denault, who had been the company's project manager, as well as the guilty plea of Carl Bell, the company's chief systems engineer. 
Mr. Bloomberg also mentioned comments from Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for Manhattan, who stated last week that "virtually all of the $600 million that the City paid to SAIC for CityTime was tainted, directly or indirectly, by fraud." 
And while the actual payroll system itself is now working well, Mr. Bloomberg continued: "Because the project was apparently tainted by fraud and kickback schemes, the city must be made whole. I am, therefore, requesting that SAIC reimburse the city for all sums paid to it, approximately $600 million, as well as the cost of investigating and remediating the matter."
In a statement, Science Applications International said: "SAIC understands and shares the outrage expressed by the city at the fraud alleged on the part of former employees and subcontractors on the CityTime program. These actions are an affront to everything we stand for as a company. SAIC is ready to discuss appropriate resolution of this matter, considering the breadth of the fraud alleged and the fact that SAIC delivered a system that the city said this week is working well."
The mayor's demand represents the latest wrinkle in a multimillion dollar scandal that has marred Mr. Bloomberg's third term, and cast a harsh light on his administration's reliance on outside consultants, especially for information technology projects.
Already, 11 people and one company, TechnoDyne, have been charged in the case, which is being led by the United States Attorney's office and the city's Department of Investigation. One defendant has died, while two have entered guilty pleas and agreed to cooperate with the authorities.
On Tuesday, Mr. Bloomberg blamed himself, in part, for the debacle, saying, "Certainly nobody paid as much attention to it as they should have, from me on down."
But with his letter Wednesday, Mr. Bloomberg was delivering the not-so-subtle message that it might be in the company's best interest to repay the city a substantial amount of money. After all, it was only a few weeks ago that the company voluntarily acceded to the city's demand that it repay the $2.5 million that had been paid to Mr. Denault when he worked on CityTime. 
Indeed, people familiar with the case said that the city was hoping to put enough pressure on the company to cough up, say, $100 to $200 million.
Interestingly enough, Mr. Bloomberg's demand comes one day before the expiration of the city's contract with Science Applications International to build the system. The city says the contract, for an automated payroll system that now includes 163,000 city employees, has been fulfilled. 
Eventually, the CityTime system will be managed by city workers rather than outside consultants, saving the city $20 million a year, according to an agreement between Mr. Bloomberg and John C. Liu, the City Comptroller.

        
Prosecutors Make Their Case for Terror Sentence
        
School Custodians Accused of Stealing $500,000 From City 
        
After Same-Sex Marriage, Same-Sex Divorce
        
Economic Doldrums Look Persistent, Bloomberg Says
        
Archbishop Calls Gay Marriage Bill an 'Ominous Threat'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (79%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INDICTMENTS (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); SCANDALS (76%); LAWYERS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (66%) CityTime; Michael R. Bloomberg; Preet Bharara; United States Attorney for the Southern District of New; Bharara, Preet; Bloomberg, Michael R; Denault, Gerard; Liu, John C; Frauds and Swindling; Government Employees; Wages and Salaries; Department of Investigation (NYC); Office of the Comptroller (NYC); Saic Inc; TechnoDyne LLC; Manhattan (NYC); Saic Inc|SAI|NYSE; City Hall; Government & Politics

COMPANY: SAIC INC (85%); SCIENCE APPLICATIONS INTERNATIONAL EUROPE SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Department of Investigation (NYC); Office of the Comptroller (NYC); Saic Inc; TechnoDyne LLC

TICKER: SAI (NYSE) (85%) Saic Inc; SAI; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%) Bharara, Preet; Bloomberg, Michael R; Denault, Gerard; Liu, John C

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011



1118 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Fed Halves Debit Card Bank Fees

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Fees paid by retailers to banks for debit card purchases, a $20 billion annual expense that has been the subject of a furious political battle over the last year, will be cut in half after the Federal Reserve voted Wednesday to cap the charges.
The cap was mandated last year in the Dodd-Frank financial regulation law, but the Fed action was far less draconian than bankers had feared. The new cap of 21 to 24 cents a transaction, down from an average of 44 cents before the law passed, is roughly double the 12 cents tentatively proposed by the Fed last December. 
Consumers are unlikely to see any immediate change at the register because they do not pay the fees directly. But merchants have complained that as the cost of debit fees -- a charge for processing payments -- has risen in recent years, they have had to add it to the prices they charge. The new lower fees may eventually be reflected in lower retail prices for consumers or, most likely, in a slight slowing of price increases. But banks said the caps would not pay for the cost of operating their electronic debit card networks, and they have warned that their customers can expect higher fees for other banking services as a result.
In approving the lower fees, the Fed's Board of Governors said there was no way of knowing what the effect of the new rules would be, although they will be watching the results closely.
''I think this is the best available solution that implements the will of Congress and makes good economic decisions,'' Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, said in voting to approve the rule. The board voted 4 to 1 in favor, with Elizabeth A. Duke dissenting.
Ms. Duke said her primary concern was about an exemption built into the law that gives smaller banks with less than $10 billion in assets a pass on the fee cap. These smaller institutions could charge retailers a higher transaction fee for debit card purchases.
Ms. Duke and other governors questioned whether and how that exemption would work. The board agreed to monitor the charges, known as interchange fees, to see how the revenues of small banks were affected, and whether merchants appeared to be rejecting cards that they knew would require them to pay a higher processing fee.
The new fee schedule includes three parts: a maximum interchange fee of 21 cents; a 1 cent addition that is allowed if the bank issuing the debit card develops a fraud-prevention program; and a variable charge of 5 basis points, or five one-hundredths of a percentage point, of the value of the transaction to recover a portion of fraud losses.
For the average debit card transaction of about $38, that variable fee would be roughly 2 cents, which would produce an upper limit, on average, of 24 cents a transaction.
The new rules will go into effect on Oct. 1. The Fed will accept comments on the proposal to allow a 1-cent addition for fraud-prevention efforts.
Since the Dodd-Frank law passed last year, lobbyists for consumers and retailers have been butting heads with bankers over the fee-setting process. At one point this month, banks pushed hard for a Senate measure aimed at delaying the fee caps, which was defeated in a floor vote.
Banking trade groups, retailers and consumer advocacy organizations all expressed some dismay at the Fed's announcement -- the bankers because they stand to lose fees and the retailer and consumer groups because the final charges rose sharply from the Fed's initial proposal.
''While Congress spoke clearly that fee-fat banks can no longer sneak billions of dollars in stealth charges from debit card users, it appears that the Federal Reserve buckled under the weight of the banking lobby,'' Bartlett Naylor, a financial policy advocate for Public Citizen, said in a statement.
Mallory Duncan, chairman of the Merchants Payments Coalition, a retailers' group, called the new rule ''unacceptable to Main Street merchants'' and said the Fed ''very clearly did not follow through on the intent of the law.''
Some banking groups also adopted a glass-half-full position. Frank Keating, president of the American Bankers Association, said the Federal Reserve took ''a significant step in reducing the harm that could have resulted from the proposed rule.''
''The final rule still represents a 45 percent loss in revenue that banks use to provide low-cost accounts to our customers, fight fraud and maintain our efficient U.S. payments system,'' Mr. Keating said. ''Consumers will see higher fees for basic banking services, and banks -- particularly community banks -- will still feel the revenue pressures that this rule will cause.''
Merchant trade groups said retailers paid $20.5 billion in fees last year to accept debit cards, including processing fees.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the Fed meeting Wednesday, from left at the table: Ben Bernanke, the chairman
Janet Yellen, the vice chairman
 and the governors Elizabeth Duke, Daniel Tarullo and Sarah Bloom Raskin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WATSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBIT CARDS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); RETAILERS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CARD INTERCHANGE FEES (89%); LEGISLATION (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); CRIME PREVENTION (60%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1119 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Smarter Welfare-to-Work Plans

 BODY:
It is a good idea to require able-bodied welfare recipients to work in exchange for benefits. But research has discredited inflexible workfare programs that shunt people into dead-end jobs instead of giving them education and training that could improve their long-term prospects. 
Several cities have adopted a more sensible approach under which people who are ready to work are pushed to find jobs right away and those who lack the most basic skills are given education and training. This mixed-strategy approach has helped raise employment rates and increase earnings for former welfare recipients.
New York City is striving to follow this model but appears to be falling short. The city must do more to connect young adults on public assistance with educational programs that could help them succeed in the labor market.
A new report by the Community Service Society, an advocacy group that focuses on poverty, surveyed scores of impoverished and distressed young people when they applied for welfare benefits between 2009 and 2011.
Those who lacked diplomas, some as young as 18, almost universally said they wanted to attend G.E.D. programs, which are a particularly good investment for young people who have never held jobs. But, according to the study, nearly all were sent to a chaotic and ineffective back-to-work program that consists mainly of job-search activities. Worse still, according to the study, some were told that they would have to quit a highly regarded G.E.D. and training program to receive public assistance.
This is alarming given that a fifth of nearly 900,000 New Yorkers between the ages of 17 and 24 are both unemployed and out of school. Christine Quinn, the speaker of the City Council, has promised legislation to require the city to better screen young welfare applicants and direct them to appropriate services. That would be a good start.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); CITIES (72%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1120 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: What's the Most Expensive College? The Least? Education Dept. Puts It All Online

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Students and families can compare colleges' tuitions, the pace at which they are rising and the net cost of attending each college on a new Web site the Department of Education made public on Thursday, fulfilling a legislative mandate.
The new lists, required by the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008, show the institutions with the highest and lowest tuitions, the highest and lowest percentage tuition increases over the last two years, and the highest and lowest net price -- that is, the actual price full-time students pay, including room and board, after financial aid like grants and scholarships are taken into account. 
In each of several categories -- public and private, for-profit and nonprofit, four-year and two-year -- the most expensive institutions and those whose costs are rising most rapidly will be required to report to the Education Department why their costs are so high and what they plan to do about it.
''This allows students and families to see the highs and lows of the distributions and highlights those good-performing institutions,'' said David Bergeron, a department official.
Information about colleges that are not among the highest 5 percent or lowest 10 percent in their category, he said, can be found on the department's College Navigator site.
A separate report to be released Thursday shows that community colleges -- long seen as the affordable route to higher education -- are increasingly unaffordable for American families. From 1999 to 2009, tuition at public two-year colleges increased 71 percent, while the median family income declined 4.9 percent, adjusted for inflation, according to a study by the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education.
''We've gotten pretty jaded about this issue, with people saying, 'Look how cheap community colleges are, compared with four-year colleges,' '' said Patrick M. Callan, president of the center. ''But actually, community colleges, which are supposed to be our safety net institutions, were losing ground even before the economic downturn, with huge tuition increases at a time when family income was declining.''
The Education Department data cover a smaller time period, reporting tuition from the academic year that began in the fall of 2009, but calculating increases from 2006 to 2008.
According to the lists, the average 2009-10 tuition at a four-year nonprofit college was $21,324. But the highest-priced institutions were far more costly: Bates College in Maine had the highest tuition last year ($51,300); Wells College, in the Finger Lakes region of upstate New York, the largest percentage increase in the two years before that (67 percent); and the Art Center College of Design in California the highest net cost for those receiving aid ($29,672).
A spokesman for Bates took issue with the department's methods, noting that its price -- and that of the other four most expensive schools listed -- includes room and board, making for an apples-and-oranges comparison with colleges where tuition is listed separately.
''Bates's average net price, taking into account financial aid, is below that of more than 400 other institutions,'' noted the spokesman, Roland Adams. ''Bates' percentage increase in tuition and fees over the last three academic years is lower than that of more than 800 other institutions.''
Indeed, the data are uneven in other respects as well. The net cost numbers, for example, include only full-time, first-time students who received financial aid, a group that at many colleges is not very large.
The average tuition at public four-year colleges was $10,747. Pennsylvania State had the highest tuition ($14,416), Northern New Mexico College the largest percentage increase (51 percent) and the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio the highest net price ($24,192).
In another effort to expand consumer information about higher education, the government will require career and vocational colleges' promotional materials to show their tuition and fees, and their students' median debt load, along with rates of graduation and job placement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (79%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (79%); EDUCATION LAW (79%); WEB SITES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); MAINE, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1121 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: A Perfect Storm? Investors Grab Silver Linings

BYLINE: By AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
Investment professionals have a new pitch: The sky could soon be falling.
While Greece took a step back from the brink on Wednesday, the possibility of a default remains a fear. Europe's debt crisis, as well as natural disasters and political uprisings, are prompting investors both big and small to seek out investments that promise to protect their portfolios in the event of economic Armageddon.
Worried that Greece could go belly up? So-called black swan funds - named for rare and unexpected events - offer a way to profit in the event of a market collapse. Think a slowdown in the United States or China could set off a global economic crisis? New exchange-traded funds are popping up to help pad investor confidence.
Since the financial crisis, many investors have prospered from a rebound in the markets. But recent events have led some to brace for the worst. 
''Clients are suddenly realizing the world isn't as rosy as it's been,'' said Ahmed Fattouh, a hedge fund executive. ''It makes a lot of sense to have these tail protections on.''
That is, protections against what Wall Street calls ''tail risk'' - a disaster that is estimated to have less than half a percent chance of happening.
Investors learned about tail risk the hard way. For decades, diversification - spreading holdings across stocks, bonds and other investments - was promoted as the way to protect investments from market crashes. But the financial crisis proved that seemingly unrelated assets could fall in unison. As a result, an increasing number of investors now want protection for financial end times.
These funds and offerings, usually costly and complicated, can be likened to insurance. Investors lose money on them during normal times, but they stand to gain if catastrophe strikes. Tens of billions of dollars are in such investments, representing a small but growing fraction of the investment world, particularly for a strategy that many investors would have scoffed at five years ago as expensive and unnecessary.
''In the last decade, we saw two stock market crashes, which wiped out any gains for investors over the decade and meant disaster for those who had to take their money out to meet big expenses at market lows,'' said Zvi Bodie, a professor of finance at Boston University School of Management. That, he said, ''has just made the current generation of investors more aware that it is risky even over a decade or more.''
Wall Street lawyers say money manager clients have approached them in recent months about forming new funds aimed at providing protection. Banks like Goldman Sachs are marketing tools engineered to bulletproof investors. Products linked to an index known as the market's ''fear gauge'' total nearly $2.5 billion. And in the last year, the amount of money managed in dedicated tail-risk accounts by the bond giant Pimco has doubled to $23 billion.
Boaz Weinstein, a former trader at Deutsche Bank who lost more than $1 billion of the bank's money during the financial crisis, began raising money for his own Armageddon fund late last year. It has since grown to $400 million of mostly institutional money, part of the $3.3 billion he has raised for his hedge funds.
''Some investors after nursing those losses say, 'I'd be much happier in return for not having that kind of downside to reinvest 1 percent of my portfolio in tail hedging,' '' he said.
Investors include big public pensions. Joelle Mevi, the chief investment officer of New Mexico's public employee pension fund, recently presented some tail risk options to her board. ''While I wouldn't tend to put a very large allocation there, I believe in having that type of insurance for the funds,'' she said.
But protection does not come cheap and occasionally fails to work. Some say such funds are merely the latest Wall Street fad and may be ineffective because they are designed to protect against the last catastrophe, not the crisis to come.
''I kind of believe that the best way to reduce risk is to take things out of the portfolio, not add them,'' said Ken Grant, president and founder of Risk Resources.
Although the names tail risk funds and black swan funds are often used interchangeably, they are distinct. Tail risk events are situations that, while conceivable, are highly unlikely based on mathematical modeling. By contrast, a black swan - a concept popularized by Nassim N. Taleb's 2007 book ''The Black Swan'' - is an event that models fail to predict.
So how do such Armageddon funds work? Take a situation like the collapse of China's economy, an event considered highly unlikely. While most American investors do not own Chinese stocks, real estate or currency, the fear is that a shock to China would spread to the rest of the world. As the stock markets fell, a tail risk or black swan fund would profit because it owned the options to sell shares in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index at far higher levels. The more the index dropped, the more valuable those options would become.
At Universa Investments, Mark Spitznagel, a former partner of Mr. Taleb's, has raised more than $6 billion for a fund that is awaiting a market calamity. In the meantime, he acknowledges, it is losing money nearly every day. Part of the reason is that he buys options to sell a given stock in the future for a price below where it is currently trading. If the stock doesn't move, or rises, the option is worthless, and he loses money. But if the share price tanks, he can make substantial profits.
Mr. Spitznagel, one of the more experienced doomsday managers, derides those who have jumped into the game recently. It takes a special kind of person to manage these kinds of investments, he says - people capable of slowly taking losses, without losing their composure.
''It takes someone that's a little bit nuts,'' he said. ''I'll do a trade, then say, 'This is the best trade I've ever done in my career, but I'm quite sure I'm going to lose money on it.' ''
''I understand my payoff and I understand these are very small losses relative to what I know I'm going to make eventually.''
Others are raising money to bet against the world. Capula Investment Management has raised some $2 billion, while 36 South Capital Advisors, a London-based fund that returned more than 200 percent during the 2008 crisis, is at $300 million and counting.
Not all investors are sold.
''Tail risk is out there, we all know it's out there, but if you have 20 some hedge funds, you're really looking for strategies that work in the total picture,'' said Craig Slaughter, who oversees roughly $12 billion as the head of the West Virginia Investment Management Board. ''Focusing on tail risk strategies - I'm just a little suspicious. It's a little bit of a sales technique.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Spitznagel, president of Universa Investments, has raised more than $6 billion for a fund that is awaiting a market calamity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY HOWE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Zvi Bodie, a professor at Boston University, said that recent market downturns have made investors more aware of risk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCY NICHOLSON/REUTERS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (84%); BONDS (79%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (79%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (59%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); GREECE (90%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1122 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Violent Clashes in the Streets of Athens

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO and SCOTT SAYARE; Niki Kitsantonis contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ATHENS -- Confrontations between the police and protesters reached a violent climax here on Wednesday as armored riot officers beat back demonstrators and fired volleys of tear gas into the crowds who had gathered outside Parliament. Inside, lawmakers approved a package of austerity measures aimed at helping Greece avoid a default.
On the second day of a two-day general strike called by unions, rogue protesters also attacked the Finance Ministry on Syntagma Square across from Parliament and set fire to a post office in the ground floor of the building. The King George Palace, a luxury hotel that faces the square, was evacuated in the afternoon. 
A police spokeswoman said that 31 police officers were injured and that 30 people had been detained, leading to 11 arrests. Local news media reported that dozens of protesters were hospitalized, and video clips showed the police striking people with their batons.
Amnesty International released a statement on Wednesday condemning the ''repeated use of excessive force by police in recent demonstrations, including the disproportionate and indiscriminate use of tear gas and other chemicals against largely peaceful protesters.''
The day began noisily but peacefully. Thousands of demonstrators gathered in front of Parliament, shouting ''thieves'' and ''traitors'' at the politicians deliberating the unpopular measures. But as the day went on, some young people, many masked and clad in black, began hurling rocks, broken furniture and firebombs at police officers, many of whom scooped up the rocks and hurled them back.
Although dramatic, the street violence was a sideshow from the broader drama unfolding in Greece today: the slow suffocation of the middle class. That brought the vast majority of the protesters -- old and young -- out into the streets this week.
''I'm here because I don't have hope,'' said Eliseos Fitros, 49, who said he had worked in the tourism trade and was not unemployed. ''I have two kids in university. What is their future? I'm worried that in two or three months the economy will collapse.''
Unemployment has soared above 16 percent here -- and more than 30 percent for those under 29.
''I'm new to these kinds of protests,'' said Theodore Katris, a student in European culture, as he stood downtown with a surgical mask on his chin to protect him from the tear gas. But he said he felt compelled to demonstrate. ''I'm 22 years old. I have nothing, I have no future,'' he said.
''My grandparents had to move to America to survive, and I think that because of these policies, my generation will have to, too,'' Mr. Katris said.
In another sign of the fury at lawmakers, protesters hurled bottles and a chair at Thomas Robopoulos, a Socialist member of Parliament who had a police escort. After first saying he would oppose the austerity measures, Mr. Robopoulos ultimately voted in favor on Wednesday.
Late into the evening, tear gas and black smoke wafted over the center of this dense city, its off-white walls plastered with graffiti. Earlier, the police and protesters had skirmished on shopping streets. Some demonstrators were forced to retreat into a nearby Metro station, where volunteer doctors also treated those who had been overcome by tear gas or been beaten by the police.
But in the strange patchwork of Athens, just blocks from the scuffles, people sat calmly in cafes and tourists made their way up to the Acropolis -- if not to the airport, because of a work stoppage by air traffic controllers.
Amid the chaotic street scuffles, immigrants from South Asia pushed carts full of bottled water and sold swimming goggles and liquid Maalox, which protesters smeared around their eyes to counter the sting of tear gas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RIOTS (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); ARSON (75%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (94%) GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1123 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and European Markets Rise on Optimism Over Greek Vote

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER and MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
The markets finally exhaled.
A relief rally swept the European and American markets after an early Wednesday vote by the Greek Parliament to approve an austerity plan.
The plan was passed, a condition set by international lenders for providing more financing and preventing a default, after weeks of uncertainty in financial markets related to the debt problems in the euro zone.
Investors had been bracing for the Greek Parliament's decision on the package, which includes unpopular wage cuts, tax increases and privatizations. While investors got some relief with the announcement that it had passed, analysts warned that unresolved fiscal issues remained. 
''Today's vote will certainly give some short-term relief to markets, but concerns about the long-term feasibility of Greece's fiscal plans still remain in place,'' said Diego Iscaro, an IHS Global Insight senior economist, in a research note after the vote.
Protests continued outside the Parliament building in Athens. A second vote was scheduled for Thursday on enabling legislation to set the timing of the privatizations, especially of Greece's state-owned electric utility.
With so much anticipation before the vote, analysts said that by the time it took place, investors had fixed positions.
''This is classic 'buy the rumor, sell the news,' '' said Phil Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors. ''The equity market was up in anticipation. We priced it in ahead of time.''
Still, the news was enough to lead major indexes higher. The DAX index in Frankfurt closed up 1.7 percent at 7,294.14, while the FTSE 100 in London rose 1.5 percent to 5,855.95.
In the Asia-Pacific region on Thursday, the reaction was muted, with the Nikkei 225 flat by the midday break in Tokyo. On Wednesday, the Nikkei had risen 1.5 percent on optimism that the Greek Parliament would pass the austerity measures.
Stocks in South Korea edged up 0.3 percent on Thursday, and Singapore and Taiwan climbed 0.7 percent. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index was 1.7 percent higher by midmorning.
In the United States, the Dow Jones industrial average closed up 72.73 points, or 0.60 percent, at 12,261.42. The Dow has now risen every day this week, putting it up 326.84 points, or 2.74 percent, in that period.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 10.74 points, or 0.83 percent, at 1,307.41 and the Nasdaq composite index was up 11.18 points, or 0.41 percent, at 2,740.49.
The Treasury's 10-year note fell 24/32, to 100 1/32. The yield rose to 3.12 percent, from 3.03 percent late Tuesday.
Bank stocks helped lift the Dow, and Bank of America was the most actively traded in the broader markets' financial sector, which rose more than 2 percent. Bank of America, which said it would set aside $14 billion to pay investors who bought securities it assembled from mortgages that later soured, rose nearly 3 percent to $11.14. The company said it expected the agreement to lead to a second-quarter loss of $8.6 billion to $9.1 billion.
Citigroup was up more than 3 percent at $41.50. Morgan Stanley rose 4.75 percent to $23.39.
Other sectors that forged ahead were materials and energy, which each closed more than 1 percent higher. Oil closed up $1.88 at $94.77.
Yields on benchmark 10-year Spanish, Portuguese and Greek bonds declined, while those in safer equivalents issued by Germany and France rose, indicating investors were willing to switch back into riskier securities.
The euro ended the day at $1.4431, up slightly from $1.4370 Tuesday.
The agreement by Greek lawmakers on the austerity measures was a crucial step in the international rescue of the crippled economy, and the relatively muted market reaction to the vote showed that investors knew that the country's financial troubles were far from over.
''What's really important is not the vote itself,'' said George Magnus, senior economic adviser at UBS in London, ''but the implementation of what they're voting on, and that's where the programs will come unstuck.''
The vote was critical to unlocking near-term financing, specifically the disbursement of the fifth installment of the original 110 billion euro bailout for Athens (roughly $140 billion when agreed to last year).
That installment would be worth 12 billion euros and would enable Greece to meet obligations like bond coupon payments in July, while paving the way for a new international lending program to provide financing through 2014.
Euro area ministers are expected to provide details of the program on July 3.
In a research report released Tuesday, Citigroup analysts said: ''Despite the aid package, eventual Greek haircuts may be inevitable, with estimated private sector haircuts of 65 to 77 percent,'' referring to the write-downs that bond holders will be required to accept.
''In other words, a bailout package addresses the liquidity issue much more than the solvency issue,'' Citigroup said.
Two Commerzbank analysts, Benjamin Schroder and Peggy Jager, said early Wednesday that ''even if the bills are passed, worries could still linger on for longer, if no broader consensus across Greek political parties forms.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); APPROVALS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); DEBT NOTES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); EURO ZONE (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (52%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); FII (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GREECE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1124 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: The Fear of a Toxic Rerun

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
KUANTAN, Malaysia -- A $230 million refinery being built here in an effort to break China's global chokehold on rare earth metals is plagued by environmentally hazardous construction and design problems, according to internal memos and current and former engineers on the project.
The plant, which would be the world's biggest refinery for rare earths -- metals crucial to the manufacture of a wide range of technologies including smartphones, smart bombs and hybrid cars -- has also become the target of protesters who fear that the plant will leak radioactive and toxic materials into the water table.
Weekly demonstrations have drawn crowds since March, and someone recently threw gasoline fire bombs at the gated home of a senior project manager.
Some risks had been expected from the plant, which would refine rare earth ores into manufacturing-grade materials. Although rare earths are not radioactive, in nature they are usually found mixed with thorium -- which is. 
That is why the Lynas Corporation, an Australian company, promised three years ago to take special precautions when it secured the Malaysian government's permission to build the sprawling complex here on 250 acres of reclaimed tropical swampland. It would be the first rare earth processing plant in nearly three decades to be finished outside China, where barely regulated factories have left vast toxic and radioactive waste sites.
Lynas has an incentive to finish the refinery quickly. Export restrictions by China in the last year have caused global shortages of rare earths and soaring prices. But other companies are scrambling to open new refineries in the United States, Mongolia, Vietnam and India by the end of 2013, which could cause rare earth prices to tumble.
Lynas officials contend that the refinery being built here is safe and up to industry standards, and say that they are working with its contractors to resolve their concerns.
''All parties are in agreement that it is normal course of business in any construction project for technical construction queries to be raised and then resolved to relevant international standards during the course of project construction,'' wrote Matthew James, an executive vice president of Lynas, in an e-mail on Wednesday night.
Trading in Sydney of Lynas shares was halted on Thursday morning pending a company announcement. Malaysia's ministry of international trade and industry scheduled a news conference late Thursday morning and was expected to announce what changes in the project would be required by the government after a review by a team from the International Atomic Energy Agency.
But the construction and design may have serious flaws, according to the engineers, who also provided memos, e-mail messages and photos from Lynas and its contractors. The engineers said they felt a professional duty to voice their safety concerns, but insisted on anonymity to avoid the risk of becoming industry outcasts.
The problems they detail include structural cracks, air pockets and leaks in many of the concrete shells for 70 containment tanks, some of which are larger than double-decker buses. Ore mined deep in the Australian desert and shipped to Malaysia would be mixed with powerful acids to make a slightly radioactive slurry that would be pumped through the tanks, with operating temperatures of about 200 degrees Fahrenheit.
The engineers also say that almost all of the steel piping ordered for the plant is made from standard steel, which they describe as not suited for the corrosive, abrasive slurry. Rare earth refineries in other countries make heavy use of costlier stainless steel or steel piping with ceramic or rubber liners.
The engineers also say that the concrete tanks were built using conventional concrete, not the much costlier polymer concrete mixed with plastic that is widely used in refineries in the West to reduce the chance of cracks.
Documents show that Lynas and its construction management contractor, UGL Ltd. of Australia, have argued with their contractors that the cracks and moisture in the concrete containment walls are not a critical problem.
Memos also show that Lynas and UGL have pressed a Malaysian contractor, Cradotex, to proceed with the installation of watertight fiberglass liners designed for the containment tanks without fixing the moisture problem and with limited fixes to the walls. But Cradotex has resisted.
''These issues have the potential to cause the plants critical failure in operation,'' Peter Wan, the general manager of Cradotex, said in a June 20 memo. ''More critically the toxic, corrosive and radioactive nature of the materials being leached in these tanks, should they leak, will most definitely create a contamination issue.''
Mr. Wan said in a telephone interview Tuesday that he believed Lynas and UGL would be able to fix the moisture problem but that he did not know what method the companies might choose to accomplish this.
The fiberglass liners are made by AkzoNobel of Amsterdam, one of the world's largest chemical companies. AkzoNobel says it, too, worries about the rising moisture.
''We will not certify or even consider the use of our coatings if this problem can't be fixed,'' Tim van der Zanden, AkzoNobel's top spokesman in Amsterdam, wrote on Monday night in an e-mail reply to questions.
Memos show that the refinery's concrete foundations were built without a thin layer of plastic that might prevent the concrete pilings from drawing moisture from the reclaimed swampland underneath. The site is located just inland from a coastal mangrove forest, and several miles up a river that flows out to the sea past an impoverished fishing village.
An engineer involved in the project said that the blueprints called for the plastic waterproofing but that he was ordered to omit it, to save money. The plastic costs $1.60 a square foot, he said.
Lynas disputes that the design ever called for using the plastic.
Nicholas Curtis, the executive chairman of Lynas, said in a telephone interview from Sydney on Monday that the project here met local environmental standards and that he believed those were consistent with international standards. ''I have complete confidence in the Malaysian environmental standards and our ability to meet the requirements,'' he said.
Mr. James, the Lynas executive vice president, said in a separate telephone interview from Sydney on Monday that the steel piping used in the plant was carefully engineered and would not pose problems. On the record, he declined to discuss issues with the concrete except to deny that rising moisture was a problem and to say that the tanks had been engineered to meet all safety standards.
In a second interview, on Tuesday, Mr. James said the company had not cut corners. ''Lynas is well funded,'' he said. ''We would never compromise our standards for a cost savings.''
UGL declined to comment, citing a corporate policy of not discussing its customers' construction projects.
Lynas started the project here three years ago, but had barely begun when it ran short of money during the global financial crisis. The company resumed the project last year after Chinese export restrictions on rare earths prompted banks and multinational users of the materials to offer generous financing.
Malaysia had reason to be cautious in allowing Lynas to build the plant. Its last rare earth refinery, operated by the Japanese company Mitsubishi Chemical, is now one of Asia's largest radioactive waste cleanup sites. That plant, on the other side of the Malay peninsula, closed in 1992 after years of sometimes violent demonstrations by citizens.
Despite the potential hazards, the Malaysian government was eager for investment by Lynas, even offering a 12-year tax holiday. The project is Australia's largest investment in Malaysia, intended to produce $1.7 billion a year in rare earths, or nearly 1 percent of Malaysia's entire economic output.Lynas agreed to pay 0.05 percent of the plant's revenue each year to the Malaysian Atomic Energy Licensing Board for radiation research.
Protests against the plant started in Malaysia after an article on Lynas's project was published in The New York Times in early March.
To address public worries about the new plant, the Malaysian government invited a team of experts from the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna to visit the site in early June. The team is to submit its report to the Malaysian authorities on Thursday, and the Malaysian government has said it plans to release the report to the public.
Engineers at the project said that Lynas officials had whisked the international inspectors through the factory in a single morning, partly because of security concerns about protesters outside the refinery gates. The team had little chance to examine the refinery's structure, the engineers said.
Gill Tudor, an agency spokesman, declined to comment on the team's work because it is not yet public.
Although Lynas has forecast repeatedly in recent months that it will start feeding ore into kilns by the end of September, engineers here said that it would take nine more months to install electrical wiring. They also said that pipe shipments were far behind schedule because of a six-month delay in ordering.
Mr. James insisted on Monday that the project remained on schedule, but he cautioned that Lynas was waiting to see whether the I.A.E.A. panel recommended any changes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Australian company is building a rare earth plant in Malaysia, where the last such effort became one of Asia's largest radioactive waste sites. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAHMAN ROSLAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
REUTERS) (B1)
 Prompted in part by China's chokehold on rare earths, the Lynas Corporation resumed building a huge refinery in Malaysia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAHMAN ROSLAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (75%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); NUCLEAR WASTE (70%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EXPORT CONTROLS (65%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (55%) MALAYSIA (95%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1125 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Democracy's Cradle, Rocking the World

BYLINE: By MARK MAZOWER. 
Mark Mazower is a professor of history at Columbia University.

 BODY:
YESTERDAY, the whole world was watching Greece as its Parliament voted to pass a divisive package of austerity measures that could have critical ramifications for the global financial system. It may come as a surprise that this tiny tip of the Balkan Peninsula could command such attention. We usually think of Greece as the home of Plato and Pericles, its real importance lying deep in antiquity. But this is hardly the first time that to understand Europe's future, you need to turn away from the big powers at the center of the continent and look closely at what is happening in Athens. For the past 200 years, Greece has been at the forefront of Europe's evolution. 
In the 1820s, as it waged a war of independence against the Ottoman Empire, Greece became an early symbol of escape from the prison house of empire. For philhellenes, its resurrection represented the noblest of causes. ''In the great morning of the world,'' Shelley wrote in ''Hellas,'' his poem about the country's struggle for independence, ''Freedom's splendor burst and shone!'' Victory would mean liberty's triumph not only over the Turks but also over all those dynasts who had kept so many Europeans enslaved. Germans, Italians, Poles and Americans flocked to fight under the Greek blue and white for the sake of democracy. And within a decade, the country won its freedom.
Over the next century, the radically new combination of constitutional democracy and ethnic nationalism that Greece embodied spread across the continent, culminating in ''the peace to end all peace'' at the end of the First World War, when the Ottoman, Hapsburg and Russian empires disintegrated and were replaced by nation-states.
In the aftermath of the First World War, Greece again paved the way for Europe's future. Only now it was democracy's dark side that came to the fore. In a world of nation-states, ethnic minorities like Greece's Muslim population and the Orthodox Christians of Asia Minor were a recipe for international instability. In the early 1920s, Greek and Turkish leaders decided to swap their minority populations, expelling some two million Christians and Muslims in the interest of national homogeneity. The Greco-Turkish population exchange was the largest such organized refugee movement in history to that point and a model that the Nazis and others would point to later for displacing peoples in Eastern Europe, the Middle East and India.
It is ironic, then, that Greece was in the vanguard of resistance to the Nazis, too. In the winter of 1940-41, it was the first country to fight back effectively against the Axis powers, humiliating Mussolini in the Greco-Italian war while the rest of Europe cheered. And many cheered again a few months later when a young left-wing resistance fighter named Manolis Glezos climbed the Acropolis one night with a friend and pulled down a swastika flag that the Germans had recently unfurled. (Almost 70 years later, Mr. Glezos would be tear-gassed by the Greek police while protesting the austerity program.) Ultimately, however, Greece succumbed to German occupation. Nazi rule brought with it political disintegration, mass starvation and, after liberation, the descent of the country into outright civil war between Communist and anti-Communist forces.
Only a few years after Hitler's defeat, Greece found itself in the center of history again, as a front line in the cold war. In 1947, President Harry S. Truman used the intensifying civil war there to galvanize Congress behind the Truman Doctrine and his sweeping peacetime commitment of American resources to fight Communism and rebuild Europe. Suddenly elevated into a trans-Atlantic cause, Greece now stood for a very different Europe -- one that had crippled itself by tearing itself apart, whose only path out of the destitution of the mid-1940s was as a junior partner with Washington. As the dollars poured in, American advisers sat in Athens telling Greek policy makers what to do and American napalm scorched the Greek mountains as the Communists were put to flight.
European political and economic integration was supposed to end the weakness and dependency of the divided continent, and here, too, Greece was an emblem of a new phase in its history. The fall of its military dictatorship in 1974 not only brought the country full membership in what would become the European Union; it also (along with the transitions in Spain and Portugal at the same time) prefigured the global democratization wave of the 1980s and '90s, first in South America and Southeast Asia and then in Eastern Europe. And it gave the European Union the taste for enlargement and the ambition to turn itself from a small club of wealthy Western European states into a voice for the newly democratic continent as a whole, extending far to the south and east.
And now today, after the euphoria of the '90s has faded and a new modesty sets in among the Europeans, it falls again to Greece to challenge the mandarins of the European Union and to ask what lies ahead for the continent. The European Union was supposed to shore up a fragmented Europe, to consolidate its democratic potential and to transform the continent into a force capable of competing on the global stage. It is perhaps fitting that one of Europe's oldest and most democratic nation-states should be on the new front line, throwing all these achievements into question. For we are all small powers now, and once again Greece is in the forefront of the fight for the future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WORLD WAR I (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (85%); RELIGION (85%); WORLD WAR II (74%); DISPLACED PERSONS (74%); LIBERALISM (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); REFUGEES (69%); ETHNICITY (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%) EUROPE (95%); GREECE (94%); TURKEY (93%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (90%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); GERMANY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1126 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Urges Debt Limit Action in U.S.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The International Monetary Fund urged the United States on Wednesday to raise the nation's borrowing limit, warning that inaction could lead to higher interest rates that would harm the domestic economy and world financial markets. 
The debt limit is the amount the government can borrow to help finance its operations. The United States reached its $14.3 trillion borrowing limit in May. It is at risk of defaulting on its debt if it does not raise that limit by Aug. 2. President Obama and Republican lawmakers have been at odds on a plan to raise it.
The I.M.F. also warned in its annual report on the American economy that rising budget deficits posed a risk to the economy. But it advocated a long-term strategy for reducing those deficits, not steep immediate cuts or tax increases. Cutting the deficit too quickly could slow the weak recovery, the fund said.
The American economy will grow this year and next but at a weak pace, the I.M.F. forecast. The fund projected that the economy would expand 2.5 percent this year and 2.7 percent in 2012. Consumers are still paying off debts, which will reduce their buying power, and budget cuts at the federal, state and local levels would also reduce demand.
The I.M.F.'s forecast is below recent projections by the Federal Reserve. The Fed expects the economy will grow by as much as 3.3 percent next year. Many private forecasters, however, are more pessimistic and closer to the I.M.F.'s view.
The I.M.F. has 187 member nations and lends money to countries with troubled finances. It also regularly reviews major national economies to look for signs of trouble that could affect the world economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TAX LAW (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BUDGET CUTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1127 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Tipster Trial Delayed Six Months

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
8:17 p.m. Updated
The curious case of Rajat K. Gupta just got curiouser.
Mr. Gupta, the former Goldman Sachs director and onetime head of McKinsey & Company, was scheduled to stand trial on July 18 on civil charges that he had leaked corporate secrets to Raj Rajaratnam, the billionaire hedge fund manager convicted of insider trading last month.
But the trial has been delayed for at least six months, according to two people familiar with the case who would discuss it only on the condition of anonymity. 
The lengthy postponement in the case, brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission, raises questions about the fate of Mr. Gupta, the most prominent business executive ensnared by the government's insider-trading crackdown.
The United States attorney's office in Manhattan, which has been investigating Mr. Gupta's role in the case for at least three years, named Mr. Gupta a co-conspirator of Mr. Rajaratnam's but has not charged him criminally.
Just a week before Mr. Rajaratnam's trial began, the S.E.C. brought an unusual civil administrative proceeding against Mr. Gupta, accusing him of tipping Mr. Rajaratnam about confidential results at Goldman and Procter & Gamble, where he also served as a director. Among the tips was news that Berkshire Hathaway, run by Warren E. Buffett, had agreed to invest $5 billion in Goldman at the peak of the financial crisis, the S.E.C. said.
Gary P. Naftalis, a lawyer for Mr. Gupta, has called the S.E.C.'s case ''totally baseless.''
Mr. Gupta played a starring role at Mr. Rajaratnam's trial. Although he did not take the witness stand, the jury heard Mr. Gupta's name throughout the testimony. They listened to a wiretap in which Mr. Gupta told Mr. Rajaratnam about secret Goldman board discussions. They also heard a recording of Mr. Rajaratnam telling a colleague that a Goldman director had leaked the bank's earnings to him.
It is unclear why federal prosecutors have not charged Mr. Gupta, but the government appears to have a weaker criminal case against him than it did against some of Mr. Rajaratnam's other co-conspirators.
Certain evidentiary rules could prohibit prosecutors from using two incriminating wiretaps on which Mr. Rajaratnam told colleagues about tips he had received about Goldman. Without those tapes, the government would be forced to rely on more circumstantial evidence at trial - like phone bills and trading records - to establish Mr. Gupta's guilt.
In the S.E.C.'s civil proceeding, which is tried not before a jury but an S.E.C. administrative law judge in Washington, the agency has a lower burden of proof than federal prosecutors would have in a criminal case. The S.E.C. also would not be subject to the rules of evidence that in a criminal trial could make the case against Mr. Gupta more difficult.
Lawyers for Mr. Gupta have sued the S.E.C. to get his case moved to federal court, contending that the agency violated his right to jury trial by bringing the administrative proceeding. That lawsuit, which is before Judge Jed S. Rakoff in Federal District Court in Manhattan, is not the reason for the suspension of Mr. Gupta's S.E.C. trial, according to people familiar with the case.
So what is the cause for the long delay? No one will say. Mr. Naftalis, Mr. Gupta's lawyer, declined to comment, as did spokesmen for the S.E.C. and the United States attorney's office.
Behind-the-scenes dickering between the Justice Department and the S.E.C. could be behind the postponement, legal experts say. The United States attorney's office in Manhattan had tried unsuccessfully to get the S.E.C. to delay bringing its civil action against Mr. Gupta until the conclusion of Mr. Rajaratnam's trial, according to court filings. Now, if federal prosecutors are still weighing charges against Mr. Gupta, they could again be asking the S.E.C. to hold off.
''The timing of civil and criminal proceedings is never preordained, but typically a matter of negotiations between the S.E.C. and federal prosecutors,'' said Eli J. Richardson, a white-collar defense lawyer at Bass, Berry & Sims and a former prosecutor. ''The substantial delay in Gupta's trial without public explanation suggests that's what's likely going on here.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rajat K. Gupta 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (87%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WITNESSES (78%); BURDENS OF PROOF (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); WIRETAPPING (73%); JUDGES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TELEPHONE RATES (72%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (69%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (57%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); BRK.B (NYSE) (55%); BRK.A (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (79%); WARREN BUFFETT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1128 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: The Cloud Darkens: As online security threats grow, companies and government are scarily unprepared

 BODY:
The Internet is getting scary. In recent weeks, hackers known as Lulz Security attacked the Web sites of Sony, the United States Senate, the C.I.A., PBS, among others. They stole names, e-mail addresses and passwords of millions of users and published them online. Then, last weekend, they regrouped under a new name. 
These attacks are among the hundreds of online security breaches this year alone, compromising data of more than 22 million people, according to the Privacy Rights Clearinghouse. Targets have included Citigroup, Lockheed Martin and even RSA Security, which makes password tokens that big companies use to protect themselves from intrusion. A survey earlier this month by the Ponemon Institute found that 9 out of 10 companies had suffered an online attack in the last 12 months.
Companies and the government are unprepared. Citigroup didn't track patterns of activity on its credit card site and failed to notice immediately when hackers took data on more than two million card users, said Avivah Litan, a security expert of Gartner. Sony didn't encrypt the data of users of its PlayStation network -- phone numbers, passwords, e-mail addresses and account histories.
Recently, for several hours, Dropbox, a popular service for storing documents and other files in the so-called computing cloud, allowed anyone to log into any of its 25 million user accounts using any password. The company tried to keep the glitch quiet but was exposed by a security researcher. No wonder concern about Internet security from Americans has jumped sharply in the past few months. Technology professionals are getting cold feet about moving more operations onto the cloud when poor corporate security practices are exposing customers to devastating identity theft and fraud. This vulnerability could stymie the Internet economy.
There is no fail-safe technology that is immune to hacking. Online security will evolve as hackers and security experts work continuously to outwit each other. Still, current standards are too low. Companies -- and the government -- must devote substantially more resources to security, making it integral to every new application, rather than patching it on as an afterthought.
There are some signs of progress. Security experts are deploying a new worldwide system to identify Internet addresses that will make it very difficult to forge or spoof a Web site. In May, the Obama administration proposed legislation with sensible provisions to ensure that companies running critical infrastructure -- like the nation's power grid -- have adequate systems to reduce the risk of an attack online.
The proposal would standardize 47 state laws on breach reporting, requiring notification of customers whose accounts were compromised. This could be a powerful incentive for firms to take security more seriously.
Other tactics are also needed. The Federal Trade Commission wants rules to force companies to minimize the information they collect from customers and to dispose of such data as soon as possible. The stolen Sony data, for example, had been on dormant servers for years.
We are putting our lives in the cloud, as companies and consumers store everything from family photos to corporate business secrets on remote servers. Beefing up online security is of paramount importance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CRIME (90%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WEB SITES (89%); CLOUD COMPUTING (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); DATA SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); IDENTITY THEFT (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (63%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); LMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1129 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Syria Pulls Its Armed Forces From Some Contested Cities

BYLINE: By ANTHONY SHADID; Hwaida Saad contributed reporting from Beirut, and an employee of The New York Times from Damascus, Syria.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- The Syrian military and the government's security forces have largely withdrawn from one of the country's largest cities as well as other areas, residents and activists said Wednesday, leaving territory to protesters whose demonstrations have grown larger and whose chants have taunted a leadership that once inspired deep fear.
The military's move out of Hama, where a government crackdown a generation ago made its name synonymous with the brutality of the ruling Assad family, has surprised even some activists and diplomats. They differ over how to interpret the government's decision there, asking whether the departure points to a government attempt to avoid casualties and another potentially explosive clash in a restive country, or to an exhausted repressive apparatus stretched too thin. 
But residents in Hama, the fourth largest city in Syria, have celebrated the departure as a victory that came after one of the worst bouts of bloodshed there in the nearly four-month uprising.
''Hama is a liberated city,'' declared one activist who gave his name as Hainin.
Residents and activists say the military and security forces have also withdrawn from Abu Kamal, near the border with Iraq, and some suburbs of the capital, Damascus. In Dayr az Zawr, a large city in the east, the military has remained on the outskirts, although security forces are said to still be operating inside the city.
The events in Hama and elsewhere around the country underscore the new dynamics in the uprising, as neither the government nor the protesters can resolve the crisis on their terms. An opposition meeting on Monday openly called for an end to President Bashar al-Assad's hold on power -- and parts of the meeting were broadcast on Syrian television, usually an instrument of the government. The committees behind the street protests are becoming better organized, and a weak economy once instrumental to the government's vision continues to stagger.
''I feel like we're in a stalemate, and while the stalemate is not pretty -- in fact, it's ugly -- it only works in the opposition's favor,'' said an Obama administration official in Washington, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''Time is on the opposition's side.''
Government forces have withdrawn from cities before -- namely Baniyas on the Mediterranean coast and Dara'a in the south -- only to return even more relentlessly. But the scale of the departure and the size of Hama seem to set apart the experience there.
''I don't think it's a tactic,'' said Wissam Tarif, executive director of Insan, a Syrian human rights group. ''It's exhaustion, a lack of resources and a lack of finances.''
Hama is a city whose name remains seared in the memory of many Syrians. In the culmination of a battle between the government and an armed Islamic opposition, the military stormed Hama in 1982, killing at least 10,000 people and perhaps far more. Some residents said that Hama's place in history had made the state more reluctant to crack down this time.
''We learned from our mistakes,'' said a teacher in Hama, who gave his name as Abu Omar. Like many interviewed there, he agreed to speak only on the condition of partial anonymity. ''To make a revolution halfway,'' he added, ''is to dig our own tombs.''
On June 3, government forces and protesters clashed in the city, which is along a strategic highway linking Damascus, Homs and Aleppo. By activists' count, as many as 73 people in Hama were killed, though Syrian officials said their security forces also suffered casualties. Syrian officials said an agreement was reached afterward according to which protests would be permitted, as long as they remained peaceful and no property was damaged. Some residents confirmed that an agreement was indeed concluded this month.
Since then, some said, even the traffic police had withdrawn.
''The security and the army are completely absent,'' said a resident who gave his name as Abu Abdo. ''They are not harassing us at all, neither before nor during the daily rallies, which have been gathering day and night. There are no patrols. Life is normal.''
In bigger numbers, protesters in Hama have gathered at night in Aasi Square, which they said they had renamed Freedom Square, and promised bigger demonstrations Friday. Activists said the city's mayor addressed the crowds there Wednesday night. When he asked what their demands were, one activist recalled that protesters replied, ''The overthrow of the regime.''
The mayor soon left, they said.
Other protesters there have taunted other cities and the leadership. ''Oh youth of Damascus,'' went one chant, ''we're in Hama, and we've toppled the regime.''
In an echo of the early days of the Egyptian revolution, when a crumbling authoritarian order inspired a new sense of citizenship, some activists say residents have taken to sweeping the streets in front of their homes and shops, volunteers have kept the main squares clean and drivers have adhered to traffic rules in the absence of the police.
Syrian officials played down the idea that the departure of government forces suggested a void in their authority. Since the beginning of the uprising, the government has said that much of the violence has occurred in clashes with armed opponents and, indeed, American officials have corroborated the existence of insurgents in some areas in Syria.
''Our policy has been that if the demonstrators are peaceful, if they do not wreak havoc or destroy public property, no security will harass them,'' Imad Moustapha, the Syrian ambassador to the United States, said in an interview. ''The universal orders are not to harass demonstrators as long as those demonstrators are peaceful.''
Mr. Moustapha estimated that 9 out of 10 protests began and ended peacefully.
The American official suggested that the violence was a response to government repression. When the government's forces withdraw, the official said, the situation becomes peaceful again.
''That's what Hama has demonstrated,'' the official said.
The departure could also suggest at least some recognition on the part of the government that a brutal crackdown cannot succeed. In Dayr az Zawr and Abu Kamal, officials removed statues of Mr. Assad's father, in what seemed an acknowledgment that they were not worth the bloodshed that would be required to save them from protesters.
''Everyone is stuck, at this point,'' said Mr. Tarif, the human rights advocate. ''The regime is stuck, the protesters are stuck and the opposition is stuck.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A sit-in on Wednesday in Damascus, Syria, honored people killed in recent protests. In other cities, protesters were cheered by the withdrawal of government troops and security forces. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KHALED AL-HARIRI/REUTERS) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%) MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) SYRIA (96%); LEBANON (92%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1130 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; IN THE GARDEN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1739 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan's Newest River

BYLINE: By ANNE RAVER

 BODY:
EVER wonder what happens to a rain garden when temperatures outside creep toward 100 degrees and it hasn't rained in weeks?
Water-loving plants wilt, of course. Especially if they are growing in just eight inches of soil, next to a dry bed of river rocks in a concrete courtyard at Teachers College of Columbia University.
''They don't look fantastic, that's for sure,'' said Marni Majorelle, 31, the founder of Alive Structures, the Brooklyn garden design firm that created this garden and specializes in turning patches of concrete into natural (or seemingly natural) habitats. ''We do have to water during times like this.''
But that water doesn't tap the city's supply; it runs from a 300-gallon rain barrel that collects water off the roof. Ms. Majorelle's husband, Eric Majorelle, 29, who manages construction of the firm's projects, set up the barrel and designed a catchment system for the downspout that pours into the rain garden. 
The 400-square-foot garden, a narrow, undulating form that stretches 80 feet across an old interior courtyard tucked behind university buildings on 120th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, is filled with plants you might see growing along the banks of a forest stream. Juncus (also known as rush) and equisetum (or horsetail), ancient plants that love to have their feet in water. Ferns and swamp azalea, a fragrant native with white clovelike flowers that attract hummingbirds and butterflies. Northern blue flag irises, blue-eyed grass and, here and there, small shrubs of mountain laurel, a woodland plant that thrives in damp soil, but needs good drainage.
''I elevated the mountain laurels, with lots of gravelly mix around the root balls, so they wouldn't sit in water,'' Ms. Majorelle said.
Three days later, when a welcome storm sent rain cascading through the downspout that funnels water into this garden, Ms. Majorelle and Colin Schumacher, 29, a special-education teacher at the Earth School (P.S. 364) in Manhattan, took off their shoes and balanced over the rocks like children let loose in the country.
By Mr. Schumacher's calculations, about 30,000 gallons of rainwater pass through this garden annually, most of it absorbed by plant roots. The rest flows into drains in the courtyard, which is also the flat roof of the college's facilities building.
''So we're slowing the water down, and cleansing it, rather than sending it into storm sewers,'' said Mr. Schumacher, who graduated last year from Teachers College with a degree in elementary education. He started a vegetable garden with preschoolers in this same courtyard a few years ago, then landed a $10,000 grant from Brita with his proposal to build a rain garden here.
''I wanted to do a green roof, but the slopes are too steep,'' Mr. Schumacher said, nodding toward the peaked roofs of the Gothic-style buildings surrounding the space.
College administrators approved the plan and contributed another $15,000, to repair drains under the courtyard and help pay for the garden, as well as to pay Alive Structures to replace the sickly potted yews with natives like dogwood and mountain laurel and to plant dwarf white pines along 120th Street.
Mr. Schumacher asked the Brooklyn firm to do the job because of its commitment to using native species, in both private gardens and public spaces, most recently the Urban Assembly Institute of Math and Science for Young Women, in Brooklyn, and the Lee, an affordable housing complex on the Lower East Side.
''It seemed a nice match for what we're doing here,'' he said. Certainly he and Ms. Majorelle agree when it comes to bringing back bits and pieces of Mannahatta, that deep forest that covered the island before Henry Hudson came up the river 400 years ago.
As Ms. Majorelle said, ''A lot of people are talking about their carbon footprint, but I say, 'What about your concrete footprint?' Because that really is one of the essential problems with the urban environment, which is 80 percent concrete.''
Mr. Schumacher and his students at the Earth School located their school on the Mannahatta map (welikia.org/explore/mannahatta-map) and learned that it was once a swamp. Perhaps some of its plants are now growing here.
''It's very exciting to imagine Manhattan when there were hills and pine forests and marshes,'' Ms. Majorelle said. ''That's what's cool about this project: it feels like a river.''
They both are cognizant of the connection between native plants, many of which are endangered, and the wildlife they sustain. And Ms. Majorelle, whose company has installed 15 green roofs, is trying to spread native plants across as many roofs and concrete courtyards as possible.
''I put 20 plants of Asclepias tuberosa, or butterfly weed, on the green roof of our office, which is eight stories high, and the monarch caterpillars found them,'' she said.
She inherited her love of plants from her mother, Lola Horwitz, a garden designer who tended their backyard in Park Slope, which had a black cherry tree. ''I used to sell the cherries that I couldn't eat,'' she said.
And though she went off to the country to earn her bachelor's degree (Bennington College, in Vermont), she missed New York City. So when she graduated she went to work for Paul Mankiewicz, at the Gaia Institute.
''Paul was a big influence on me,'' she said. ''I learned a lot about wetlands and green roofs and native plants.'' At the same time, she enrolled in a two-year program at Columbia and earned a certificate in biology conservation.
In 2007, she started her own business. ''Nonprofits are very important,'' she said, but ''I didn't want to apply for grants, I wanted to be out there doing the job.''
Then, on a Brooklyn rooftop, where a friend was showing the film ''The Life Aquatic,'' she met Eric Majorelle, an entrepreneur who was born in Manhattan and raised in Paris (and whose family created the famous Majorelle Garden in Marrakesh). They were married in 2009.
When the economy tanked, so did Mr. Majorelle's film and arts studio, East Coast Aliens, so he and his new wife decided to work together.
''I was hesitant because I thought, 'Oh, we'll always be fighting,' and we did fight at first, until we figured out how to work together,'' Ms. Majorelle said.
Having a great crew helps, she said. ''People who are comfortable with plants, and also strong. Who don't mind conversing about Antonioni and the relevancy of 'Blow-Up.' ''
IN building this rain garden in a courtyard, the Majorelles applied many of the same principles they use on green roofs.
They knew from speaking with college administrators that the courtyard, where countless graduations and gatherings have been held, could bear the weight of the garden, with its three to four tons of stones, soil and plants.
The first step in constructing the garden was bending the dark-colored aluminum edging (GeoEdge, made by Permaloc) to mimic the undulating sides of a stream. To protect the concrete, they put a roof membrane on top of it, as well as a drainage mat to keep excess water from pooling on the surface.
The shape and size of the garden was constricted by the public gatherings in the courtyard. ''Otherwise, I would have covered it with a pond,'' Ms. Majorelle said. But those restrictions inspired the riverbed.
Mr. Majorelle worked with a friend who owns a metal shop to build a wide copper pan, angled just below the downspout, to send water gushing into the garden. They drilled a hole in the back of the downspout and attached a rubber tube; buried under pea gravel and rocks, it carries water to the second half of the garden.
''Our concern was that the water wouldn't travel as far as it needed to go,'' Ms. Marjorelle said.
It took their sturdy crew of four about a week to lug tons of gravel and sand, good topsoil, compost and river rocks up the dozen steps to the courtyard.
After the edging and protective mats went down, they spread a few inches of pea gravel over the surface of the space, nestled the water tube into the gravel, then covered it with more gravel and sand. Then hundreds of river rocks went on top, along with the boulders, some four feet wide, set in choice spots.
''We handpicked the rocks ourselves, from the Stone Center in New Jersey,'' Mr. Majorelle said. ''We didn't have that big a budget, so we saved money by delivering them ourselves.''
After the rain, the Labrador violets, the mosses and ferns, the dark green leaves of the Allegheny pachysandra -- which has lovely white spires in spring -- glistened with water, and newfound vigor.
''How much cooler is this than those huge tanks the city puts below the streets and buildings to store storm water?'' Ms. Majorelle said.
At the moment, the overflow goes into the city's sewage treatment plants, or out to sea.
But Ms. Majorelle has another vision: ''Rain gardens as public parks and natural habitats.''
Getting It Rolling
CREATING a rain garden in a city or suburban yard is easier than building one on a rooftop or in a courtyard, because water will drain more naturally into the earth below. The garden should be at least 10 feet from the foundation of the house, on a slight downward slope, or in a swale where water collects naturally. Connecting a pipe or hose from the downspout, digging the space to the proper depth (usually from 5 to 8 inches deep) and choosing appropriate plants are not difficult, but some planning and basic knowledge are required.
Several Web sites offer excellent information, including those of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (dec.ny.gov/public
/44330.html), the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (dnr.state.wi.us/runoff/rg) and the West Michigan Environmental Action Council (raingardens.org).
Glover Perennials, in Cutchogue, N.Y., carries a wide selection of native plants suitable for rain gardens; (631) 765-3546 or gloverperennials.com.
''Rain Gardens: Managing Water Sustainably in the Garden and Designed Landscape,'' by Nigel Dunnett and Andy Clayden, is a valuable guide for designing and building a rain garden.
The Stone Center, in Bridgewater, N.J., has a good selection of river stones and boulders; (732) 469-4433 or thestonecenter.com/bridgewater.
A first-person how-to, ''Rain Gardens: Using Spectacular Wetland Plantings to Reduce Runoff,'' by Janet Marinelli, who built one with her husband, Don, on Shelter Island, is available on the Brooklyn Botanic Garden's Web site (bbg.org/gardening/article/rain--gardens). The article includes links to other excellent online guides.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RIVERBED: Marni Majorelle (designer) and Colin Schumacher (visionary) at the rain garden at Columbia University. (D1)
NATIVES: Clockwise from top center: the rain garden at Teachers College at Columbia University
mountain laurel
Colin Schumacher and Marni Majorelle
fame flower
Christmas fern
downspout with copper catchment
Labrador violets
leatherleaf mahonia
leaves of the Northern blue flag iris.
 UNDULATING: Equisetum, top left, and hay-scented fern and tiarella, bottom left, are a few of the native plants in the rain garden. The metal edging is perforated to allow excess water to drain and avoid flooding the courtyard. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RANDY HARRIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHER EDUCATION (89%); GARDENING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1131 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: Commuter Rail in Florida

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''A Congressman's Pet Project; a Railroad's Boon'' (''The Champions'' series, front page, June 28), about Florida's SunRail project, is not a fair portrayal of the initiative. 
There is no more cost-effective solution to provide near-term relief to the region's increasing highway congestion. The project will provide a transportation alternative and relocate freight rail to less populated parts of the state. The project will also create jobs and spur significant economic development.
The state negotiated the purchase of the tracks from CSX, and that contract dictates that proceeds of the sale be invested in other major infrastructure projects in the state.
SunRail opponents leveled similar bogus claims about sweetheart deals for CSX against former Gov. Jeb Bush when he negotiated purchase of the rail line.
Other facts readers should know:
A SunRail station will serve the adjacent Orlando airport with a direct bus connection.
Four counties and the City of Orlando share funding responsibility with the state and federal government.
Commuter rail lines, by definition, operate more often during peak hours.
This project is a good infrastructure project that will improve the region's transportation and the economy.
JOHN L. MICA Washington, June 29, 2011
The writer, who represents the 7th Congressional District in Florida, is chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RAIL FREIGHT (73%); WRITERS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); JOB CREATION (70%)

PERSON: JOHN L MICA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1132 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: We Call it Brown. They Call It 'Weekend in the Country.'

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- If you heard the words ''Tempest,'' ''Turbulence'' and ''Tornado Watch,'' you might head for the basement -- fast.
Paint manufacturers want you to head for the living room.
In a redoubled effort to capture consumers' attention in this sputtering economic recovery, some paint companies are hoping to distinguish their brands with names that tell a story, summon a memory or evoke an emotion -- even a dark one -- as long as they result in a sale.
What they do not do is reveal the color.
''For a long time we had to connect the color name with the general color reference,'' said Sue Kim, the color trend and forecast specialist for the Valspar paint company. ''But now,'' Ms. Kim added, ''we're exploring color names that are a representation of your lifestyle.'' 
Thus, Valspar, which once featured Apricot 1 through Apricot 6, now offers Weekend in the Country, a name that might put you in mind of an idyllic getaway or a Stephen Sondheim tune but that will not convey a specific hue. (For the record, it is the color of mud -- perhaps not such a great weekend after all.)
Sherwin-Williams offers Synergy. From Ace Paint comes Hey There! Benjamin Moore has Old World Romance, all names that give new meaning to the term colorblind.
''Color names are marketing tools, meaning they help sell paint,'' said Lyne Castonguay, merchandising vice president for paint at The Home Depot.
With home sales depressed, there is new urgency to that mission. The fortunes of interior paints (''architectural coatings,'' in industry lingo) are tied to the housing market. Paint sales tumbled when the housing bubble burst, and while they edged up 6.7 percent last year over the previous year, they have not rebounded to the peak level of more than $9 billion in 2007.
Even with a fresh coat of creativity -- like fanciful names -- sales could slow again, as more housing remains stalled in foreclosure, new construction sags and consumers face higher paint prices because of the rising costs of raw materials.
''Emotional color names in neutral shades and color combos are crucial for successful home sales,'' Ms. Castonguay said, citing as examples Home Depot's Behr Collection names like ''Quietude,'' ''Rejuvenate'' and ''Cozy Cottage.''
Pete Appezzato, 36, who works in sales, was surveying the staggering number of paint chips at a Home Depot in New York City the other day. Many, he thought, are ''just weird,'' but he was not impervious to the appeal of names.
He first bought Creme Brulee, a Martha Stewart color, because he liked the sound. But after trying it in his kitchen, he was not happy, and he painted over the room.
After his fourth try, he settled on colors that sounded decidedly upscale: Prestige for the walls and, for inside the cabinets, Polished Leather. He found that Polished Leather actually looked polished, and said happily that it reminded him of a leather bag he once owned.
In pursuit of emotional connections, some paint companies have swept aside even basic rules, including the one that said to avoid negative connotations.
Martha Stewart offers Darkening Sky and Tempest. Benjamin Moore has Stormy Sky. Pantone has Turbulence and Tornado.
''These names might be disturbing to some,'' said Lee Eiseman, executive director of Pantone. ''But these are things that exist in nature.''
And then there is Dead Salmon, a taupe-like color from Farrow & Ball, the English paint company. Sarah Cole, the company's marketing director, explained that the word ''dead'' in Britain means matte. Has the company considered dropping the ''dead'' for its American audience? No, Ms. Cole said. ''It's fun, and people pick up on it.'' (The company also offers Arsenic.)
Executives at Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, whose 280 colors are sold through Home Depot, say they have spurned the narrative approach in favor of names that are based in reality: File Cabinet and Lunch Bag among them.
''They don't need a long Harlequin romance of a title,'' said Kevin Sharkey, executive creative director for Martha Stewart. '' 'Pencil' is enough.''
To avoid confusion, paint companies almost never retire old colors or reuse names. So customers must wade through an ever-expanding universe in which colors multiply and become less distinguishable. Benjamin Moore, for example, offers 3,300 colors. Valspar, which sells its paints through Lowe's Home Improvement stores, has 3,500.
The sheer number and oddity of some of the names lead some consumers to suspect that paint companies are just pulling names out of thin air, but industry representatives say there is method to their madness.
At Valspar, located in a Chicago high-rise near O'Hare airport, colorists can meet in ''vignette'' rooms that encourage storytelling. One resembles an outside deck, replete with a porch chair and mural of Wrigley Field. Ms. Kim assigns the colorists homework, like browsing certain magazines and blogs. One, called colourlovers.com, allows users to create and share their own palettes; among more than one million offerings are I Feel Sorry for You and When Time Ran Out. They also watch movies and visit stores. And a few times a year, they head downtown for a big brainstorming session at a loft building called Catalyst Ranch and its brightly colored meeting spaces, which are intended to help employees think creatively.
The Valspar team begins with mind-stretching exercises, like puzzles, then Ms. Kim, 35, usually provides a few words to get the discussions rolling.
At a recent session to name a light green color, they started with this description: ''Misty green; in motion; anticipation for next stop.'' She said this led to storytelling that prompted chatter about sightseeing in Europe, guidebooks and subway maps. It soon yielded a working title, to be refined at a later date: Metro at 5.
And what if the name makes no sense to the consumer?
''I am perfectly fine if a certain name gives them a perplexed, thoughtful moment,'' Ms. Kim said, ''if the three-second glance gets us another five seconds as they pause to think, 'Why is that Metro at 5?' I think that's a good thing.''
Taryn Look, 25, an actress, who was checking out Home Depot's Behr collection the other day, rolled her eyes at some of the names. ''I wonder how much these people get paid,'' she mused, glancing at Genteel Lavender, a color she said she would rebrand My Gay Best Friend.
But she did pause at a color named Lightweight Beige, and soon she was telling a story about when her parents met. Her father told her mother that he liked her in beige, and so she swapped her once-colorful wardrobe for one that was all beige.
Ms. Look said she would rename the color My Mother, After She Met My Dad.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: By Valspar
By Martha Stewart Living
Synergy by Sherwin-Williams
By Ace Paint
By Farrow & Ball
Sue Kim, color trend and forecast specialist at Valspar, says the company no longer has to ''connect the color name with the general color reference.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)
Pete Appezzato didn't like Creme Brulee -- the paint color in his kitchen, that is -- and so he painted over it, several times. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''The Deck,'' one of Valspar's brainstorming rooms for colorists. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTS & COATINGS MFG (91%); PAINTS & COATINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (86%); WEATHER (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); TRENDS (74%); HOME PRICES (68%); FORECLOSURE (63%); CONSTRUCTION (62%)

COMPANY: SHERWIN-WILLIAMS CO (90%); HOME DEPOT INC (84%)

TICKER: SHW (NYSE) (90%); HD (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (90%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (84%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1133 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Round 1 in Appeals of Health Care Overhaul Goes to Obama

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
The Obama administration prevailed Wednesday in the first appellate review of the 2010 health care law as a three-judge panel from the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit held that it was constitutional for Congress to require that Americans buy health insurance.
The ruling by the Cincinnati court is the first of three opinions to be delivered by separate courts of appeal that heard arguments in the health care litigation in May and June. Opinions are expected soon from panels in the Fourth Circuit in Richmond, Va., and the 11th Circuit in Atlanta. 
Lawyers on both sides of the case widely expect the Supreme Court to take one or more of the cases, perhaps as soon as its coming term, which starts in October. The speed of the Sixth Circuit ruling could help ensure that timing.
The opinion was the first not to break down strictly along seemingly partisan lines. In the 2-to-1 ruling, a judge appointed by a Republican president joined one named by a Democrat to write the majority opinion.
In various cases at the lower District Court level, five judges have divided on the question, with three Democratic appointees backing the law and two Republican appointees rejecting it.
As they look ahead to the Supreme Court, the law's defenders can take encouragement from the concurring opinion written by Judge Jeffrey S. Sutton, an appointee of President George W. Bush, a Republican. Judge Sutton is typically considered conservative on questions of constitutional reach.
After acknowledging the difficulty of pinpointing the limits on Congress's power to regulate interstate commerce, Judge Sutton wrote, ''In my opinion, the government has the better of the arguments.'' He added, ''Not every intrusive law is an unconstitutionally intrusive law.''
Joining Judge Sutton was Judge Boyce F. Martin Jr., an appointee of President Jimmy Carter, a Democrat. Dissenting on the central issues was Judge James L. Graham, a District Court judge appointed by President Ronald Reagan who is on temporary assignment to the Sixth Circuit.
The appeal, which was heard by the panel on June 1, came in a challenge filed by the Thomas More Law Center, a conservative public interest firm in Ann Arbor, Mich. In its 69-page ruling, the panel upheld Judge George C. Steeh of Federal District Court in Detroit, who concluded that choosing not to buy health insurance was a consequential commercial decision that could be regulated by Congress under the Commerce Clause of the Constitution.
Starting in 2014, the Affordable Care Act will require most Americans to buy health insurance or pay an income tax penalty. The administration argues that without the insurance mandate it is not reasonable to require insurers to cover all applicants regardless of their health status.
The Sixth Circuit majority held that the mandate was ''facially constitutional under the Commerce Clause'' for two reasons.
''First, the provision regulates economic activity that Congress had a rational basis to believe has substantial effects on interstate commerce,'' Judge Martin wrote. ''In addition, Congress had a rational basis to believe that the provision was essential to its larger economic scheme reforming the interstate markets in health care and health insurance.''
The court directly addressed whether a choice to go without health insurance qualifies as an ''activity'' that substantially affects interstate commerce, which is the standard set in prior Supreme Court decisions on the breadth of the Commerce Clause.
''The activity of foregoing health insurance and attempting to cover the cost of health care needs by self-insuring is no less economic than the activity of purchasing an insurance plan,'' the opinion stated.
The majority emphasized that the case should not hang on distinctions about whether the failure to buy insurance should be defined as activity or inactivity, a question the Supreme Court has never considered. ''The constitutionality of the minimum coverage provision cannot be resolved with a myopic focus on a malleable label,'' the judges said.
In his concurrence, Judge Sutton added, ''Inaction is action, sometimes for better, sometimes for worse, when it comes to financial risk.'' Whether an individual buys an insurance policy or not, the judge wrote, ''each requires affirmative choices; one is no less active than the other; and both affect commerce.''
Judge Graham countered in his dissent that if the mandate was allowed, ''it is difficult to see what the limits on Congress's Commerce Clause authority would be.''
But the majority agreed with Neal K. Katyal, the acting United States solicitor general, who argued that individual choices not to buy insurance, when taken in aggregate, have clear commercial effects because they shift the cost of caring for the uninsured to other payers.
The judges adopted Mr. Katyal's argument that because the need for health care is unpredictable, it is impossible for individuals to opt out of the market. And they agreed that cost-shifting was inevitable as long as the federal government required hospitals to treat those who show up with life-threatening conditions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CONSERVATISM (87%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); LAWYERS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); INSURANCE (72%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JEFFREY S SUTTON (79%); BOYCE F MARTIN JR (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); JIMMY CARTER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (72%) OHIO, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1134 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Vs. World

BYLINE: By DAVID GREENBERG. 
David Greenberg, a historian at Rutgers, is a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.

 BODY:
AFTER Barack Obama announced new troop withdrawals from Afghanistan last week, it was no surprise to hear rebukes from the mushrooming field of Republican presidential candidates. The surprise came in what they said: although some predictably implied that he was looking to cut and run, several others declared the move too little, too late.
That break from the usual Republican hawkishness has also been on view in the House, where Republican leaders have faulted the president for using force in Libya without Congressional authorization, especially now that he has run afoul of the War Powers Act. And balanced-budget mania has enabled talk of scaling back defense spending of a sort that Republicans would once have never dared broach. 
Suddenly, after the aggressive, militaristic foreign policy of the Bush years, isolationism -- a stance that rejects America's leadership role in the world -- is on the rise among Republicans. But if this comes as an abrupt break, it is also a return to form: the impulse to retreat from the world stage has a long and hardy pedigree within Republican ranks. And while a dose of caution among conservatives can be refreshing, a Tea Party-led reversion to a dogmatic America First stance could damage both the party and the country.
Modern Republican isolationism began with the 1919 battle over joining the League of Nations, when Senate Republicans, led by so-called Irreconcilables like William Borah of Idaho, killed the deal -- even though without American guidance, European affairs were doomed to explode again. A pattern emerged, as liberal Democrats, along with Northeastern Republicans, wanted America to actively manage world affairs, while the Republicans' powerful Midwestern and Western factions viewed cooperative international ventures as dangerously entangling alliances.
The isolationists had complex motives: Congressional vigilance against presidential encroachments on their constitutional powers; a small-town obsession with balanced budgets; and conspiratorial suspicions of foreigners, financiers and -- in the case of anti-Semites like Charles A. Lindbergh -- Jews. Naturally, isolationism thrived among Congressional Republicans when a Democrat held the White House -- as it does again today -- but it continued through the Coolidge and Hoover years, too.
Later, Republicans resisted Franklin D. Roosevelt's efforts to gird the nation for war, passing legislation that limited rearmament and support for European allies. Only the bombing of Pearl Harbor banished the isolationists to the margins.
Some thought World War II, which proved the need for American leadership, would kill off isolationism. Yet with Harry S. Truman as president and the Republicans running Congress after 1946, members of the party's Midwestern faction -- led by Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio -- vainly fought efforts to promote collective security, including NATO and the Marshall Plan.
Right-wing isolationism seemed to die again after 1952, when Dwight D. Eisenhower, an internationalist, vanquished Taft in an epic battle for the presidential nomination. As vigorous a cold warrior as Truman, Eisenhower articulated a staunch anti-Communism behind which most of his party could unite.
Yet the G.O.P.'s isolationist strain, though submerged, remained alive. Shattering the cold war consensus, the Vietnam War not only spawned a new ''Come Home, America'' sentiment on the left but also brought out the old-fashioned isolationism of Midwestern reactionaries like the activist Phyllis Schlafly and the radio host Paul Harvey. In a 1976 vice presidential debate, Senator Bob Dole, the Republican nominee, seethed over the century's four ''Democrat wars.''
A string of internationalist G.O.P. presidents, from Richard M. Nixon to the first George Bush, helped recast the Republicans on foreign policy, but isolationism emerged once more in the 1990s. Several events -- the fall of the Soviet Union, the perception that Mr. Bush's foreign affairs focus blinded him to economic suffering at home -- led Republican congressmen to oppose President Bill Clinton's myriad global initiatives, from the Balkan campaigns to United Nations financing to arms control treaties.
Given the Republican chest-thumping after 9/11, it was easy to assume that the party had finally and completely jettisoned its isolationist tendencies. But a decade later, with fear of Islamist terrorism subsiding, they are again in evidence, at a moment when the world needs America to play a stabilizing role. And this time, the G.O.P.'s old Eastern wing, which used to provide internationalist ballast, is almost nonexistent.
A healthy democracy needs critics, particularly when it engages in risky overseas adventures. But the doctrinaire call to drastically scale back our global leadership role has usually led us into error, making the world a more chaotic and dangerous place. Following the path of isolationism today won't serve America well. Nor will it help the Republicans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WORLD WAR II (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1135 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE TRADE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: How the U.S. Shelters and Subsidizes the Banking Industry

BYLINE: By JESSE EISINGER. 
Jesse Eisinger is a reporter for ProPublica, an independent, nonprofit newsroom that produces investigative journalism in the public interest. Email: jesse@propublica. org. Twitter: @eisingerj.

 BODY:
The most pronounced development in banking today is that executives have become bolder as their business has gotten worse.
The economy is clearly weaker than expected, and housing prices are falling throughout the land, eroding bank asset values. Yet regulators are on their heels in Washington as bankers and their lobbyists push back against the postcrisis regulations, even publicly condemning the new rules.
In a well-covered exchange, Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, challenged Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, about the costs and benefits of the Dodd-Frank rules. More attention has been paid to the banker's audacity, but the response of the world's most powerful banking regulator was more troubling. Mr. Bernanke scraped and bowed in apology without mentioning the staggering costs of the crisis the banks led us into. 
So this is a good occasion to step way back to understand just how good the banks have it today.
The federal government, in ways explicit and implicit, profoundly subsidizes and shelters the banking industry. True since the 1930s, it is much more so today. And that makes Mr. Dimon no capitalist colossus astride the Isle of Manhattan, but one of the great welfare queens in America.
The protection is so well established that we barely notice it anymore. The government supervises bank activities and guarantees deposits. When people walk into a bank, they assume it is as safe as their local supermarket.
Banks are also the mechanism through which we express economic policy, especially as fiscal stimulus has been eliminated as an option. The result is that the government pays a ''vig'' to banks in order to reach its policy goals.
When the Federal Reserve lowers interest rates to help buoy the economy during a slowdown, banks are the first beneficiaries. As the Fed lowers short-term rates, banks borrow cheaply and lend out for a lot more, making any new lending highly profitable (assuming the banks make good loans). This is classic monetary policy, and supported nearly universally. But let's not pretend that it isn't a boon to banks.
Some think bolstering banks' fortunes is a major goal, not a side effect.
''The Fed not only wants to stimulate the economy but also to recapitalize the banks, and this is a stealth technique to do it,'' said Herbert M. Allison Jr., a former investment banker who has turned banking apostate in a new white paper called ''The Megabanks Mess,'' published as a Kindle Single. The reason ''banks aren't doing more lending is that they still hold a lot of troubled assets that tie up equity.''
Then there are the more subtle subsidies and protections. Take regulatory forbearance. In 2009, regulators gave banks a gift on their commercial real estate loans. They allowed banks to look primarily at whether the loans were current, rather than at whether the underlying value of the property had declined. Of course, given the commercial real estate collapse, this had the effect of protecting banks from write-downs.
Banks and regulators say this is justified because an underwater borrower isn't necessarily going to default. True, but it's hard to see how those borrowers - and therefore the banks - are better off for the crash in their collateral.
Commercial real estate is the least of it. The government is profoundly subsidizing the housing market, too. Hardly a loan gets made today by a bank that isn't guaranteed by either Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or the Federal Housing Administration. There is no subprime mortgage business outside of the F.H.A. When banks make mortgages and sell the credit risk to the government, they make a quick, safe profit.
The first effect of these policies, for better or worse, is to keep a floor under the housing market. But it also helps banks that own trillions in real estate assets that the government is propping up.
Another way taxpayers coddle the biggest banks is by implicitly guaranteeing their derivatives business. JPMorgan, widely viewed as safe and well managed, is a huge beneficiary here. It had $79 billion worth of derivatives on its books in the first quarter. Even if it's hedged, prudent and has thin margins, it's still going to throw off a nice chunk of profits.
Institutions on the other side of these trades wouldn't enter contracts without believing that they have some underlying protection - protection that comes from the government.
''No sensible person would put a nickel on deposit in the normal course given the enormity and opacity of the derivatives portfolios,'' said Amar Bhide, a former trader and business professor at the Fletcher School. ''It's entirely a function of deposit insurance and the implicit guarantee that the JPMorgan counterparties have.''
The government's actions in the financial crisis only cemented that certainty. Counterparties and investors that were previously not guaranteed, like holders of money market funds, were protected at every turn.
This bailout never ended. ''In effect, we nationalized the biggest banks years ago,'' Mr. Allison said. ''We implicitly guaranteed them. The taxpayers are still the ultimate owners of the risk in those banks - they just don't get equity returns for that ownership.''
So when taxpayers hear a bank chief, like Jamie Dimon, complaining, it's worth keeping in mind that his 10-figure paycheck is largely coming courtesy of us.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, complained this month to the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, about increased regulation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); LOBBYING (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); INTEREST RATES (63%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (63%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (88%); JAMES DIMON (87%); HERBERT M ALLISON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1136 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America Settles Claims Stemming From Mortgage Crisis

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and ERIC DASH; Gretchen Morgenson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Just how much will it cost the big banks to atone for the mortgage mess?
Bank of America announced Wednesday that it would take a whopping $20 billion hit to put the fallout from the subprime bust behind it and satisfy claims from angry investors. But for its peers, the settlements may just be starting.
Heavyweight investors that forced Bank of America to hand over billions to cover the cost of home loans that later defaulted are now setting their sights on companies like JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Wells Fargo, raising the prospect of more multibillion-dollar deals.
''Bank of America has charted a path that our clients expect other banks will follow,'' said Kathy D. Patrick, the lawyer who represented BlackRock, Pimco, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and 19 other investors who hold the soured mortgage securities assembled by the Bank of America. 
Ms. Patrick's clients are seeking $8.5 billion from Bank of America -- a settlement that needs a judge's approval and could still face objections from investors seeking a better deal. A date to review the blueprint has been set for Nov. 17 with Justice Barbara R. Kapnick in New York Supreme Court.
All told, analysts say the financial services industry faces potential losses of tens of billions from future claims -- real money even by the eye-popping standards of the nation's biggest banks. Indeed, even that $20 billion announced Wednesday will not be enough to completely stanch the bleeding at Bank of America -- it says litigation over troubled mortgages could cost it another $5 billion in the future.
The proposed settlement is more than just another financial blow to a company staggering from the collapse of the mortgage bubble. It also represents a major acknowledgment of just how flawed the mortgage process became in the giddy years leading up to the financial crisis of 2008, typified by the excesses at Countrywide Financial, the subprime mortgage lender Bank of America acquired in 2008.
Ms. Patrick and her clients claim that Countrywide created securities from mortgages originated with little, if any, proof of assets or income. Then, they argue, Bank of America did not properly service these mortgages, failed to heed pleas for help from homeowners teetering on the brink of foreclosure and frequently misplaced documents.
Most of the loans in the pools covered by the settlement were underwritten at the height of the mortgage mania: in 2005, 2006 and 2007. But with borrowers soon unable to meet their monthly payments, defaults soared.
For the banking industry, the reckoning could not come at a worse time. On Wall Street, trading revenue has been devastated by the economic uncertainty in Europe, the anemic recovery in the United States, and the stock market swoon of the last two months.
What's more, new regulations have already taken a big bite out of profits. Despite a modest amount of relief on Wednesday, when the Federal Reserve completed new rules governing debit card swipe fees, the banks stand to lose billions when the regulations take effect next month.
If all this were not enough, further weakness in the housing and job markets has reduced lending by the banks to businesses and consumers alike, cutting yet one more source of profits.
Nevertheless, investors appeared to endorse the proposed settlement, with Bank of America shares rising nearly 3 percent, to $11.14, a move mirrored by shares of other big financials.
Some experts said the settlement could prove good news for consumers and the broader economy, speeding the foreclosure process for hundreds of thousands of homeowners while potentially making it easier to obtain modifications of existing mortgages.
By providing a template for cleaning up past claims and setting standards for future practices, the settlement could make it easier for banks to bundle and sell mortgages again, a business that has been all but dead since the financial crisis.
''That is important for providing funding for people to buy homes, grow their businesses and create jobs,'' said Michael S. Barr, a former assistant Treasury secretary who now teaches law at the University of Michigan.
The accord does not resolve an investigation by all 50 state attorneys general into allegations of mortgage service abuses by Bank of America and other major lenders that could ultimately cost the industry billions more in fines and penalties. Nor does it cover liability from soured home equity loans or bonds the bank created with mortgages from lenders other than Countrywide.
Of the $20 billion that Bank of America announced Wednesday, $8.5 billion will go to investors who bought the most troubled securities backed by Countrywide mortgages. Another $5.5 billion will cover future claims by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and private investors that also bought troubled mortgage bonds from the bank.
The remaining $6.4 billion represents a noncash charge to reflect the drop in the value of Countrywide, as well as the increased cost of more rigorous servicing requirements and additional legal expenses.
Those charges will cause Bank of America to record a loss of $8.6 billion to $9.1 billion for the second quarter. The company, however, tried to portray the settlement as one more step in putting Countrywide's poisonous legacy behind it, rather than a surrender.
''We did fight for the last several months,'' said Brian T. Moynihan, chief executive of Bank of America, in a conference call with analysts. ''But when you look at this over all, it's a better decision for the company. It was much more adverse to the company if we kept fighting. We've been battling it out.''
The fight began last October when eight investors holding mortgage securities representing $104 billion in home loans spread across 115 deals charged that Countrywide and Bank of America had passed off troubled mortgage loans as safe investments, and failed to properly collect money for the investors from homeowners. Pimco and BlackRock, two of the original eight investors, had been longtime clients of Ms. Patrick's firm, Gibbs & Bruns, and first approached the firm for help in the spring of 2010.
In early January, Bank of America announced that it had settled for $2.5 billion similar claims from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled mortgage giants. That provided valuable data for Ms. Patrick's group to use in assessing just how many mortgages were improperly presented as safe investments or not serviced correctly.
By March, said Ms. Patrick, the group had grown to 22 firms with holdings in 530 deals that represented $424 billion in underlying mortgages.
Meanwhile, Bank of America's stock was falling, sinking nearly 20 percent this year in part because of the fallout from the mortgage debacle, which encouraged the Charlotte, N.C.-based bank to resolve claims. Rather than just address mortgages held by Ms. Patrick's investors, however, Bank of America decided to reimburse investors in all 530 deals -- nearly all of the subprime loans that were assembled and sold to private investors on behalf of Countrywide.
The $8.5 billion settlement on $424 billion worth of mortgages suggests that 2 percent of Countrywide's loans may have been underwritten or serviced improperly. A much bigger segment of those mortgages -- about a quarter -- are either in default or severely delinquent now. Bank of America attributes many of the foreclosures and defaults to the downturn in the economy.
In addition to the financial terms, the settlement also requires Bank of America to adhere to more rigorous servicing standards, on top of new requirements imposed by federal regulators.
Home loans from 300,000 borrowers will be removed from Bank of America's servicing arm, and placed among 10 special sub-servicers, with the goal of fast-tracking a resolution of their cases. Borrowers will get answers on any possible modification within 60 days, have a single point of contact and avoid having to resubmit documents.
Now, the pressure will be on Bank of America's main rivals to reach similar accords. JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and Citigroup also face potentially billions of dollars in legal claims.
In a research note published on Wednesday, Keith Horowitz of Citigroup said the Bank of America deal was likely to set the high-water mark for other potential settlements. Using the 2 percent loss rate as a guide, he projected that Chase could face about a $9 billion hit on its portfolio of troubled mortgage bonds. Wells Fargo, Mr. Horowitz estimated, could face losses reaching $4 billion, though that could be lower because of tighter underwriting standards. Other analysts previously put Citigroup's exposure at about $3 billion.
If that is the case, analysts say that all three of those banks appear to have set aside enough money in reserve or have the earnings power to eventually cover the cost of resolving the claims, without having to raise more capital or sell stock.
''This tells us the shape of the biggest dollar litigation settlements from the crash,'' said Peter Swire, a former special assistant for housing policy in the Obama administration, and now a law professor at Ohio State University. ''The doomsday scenarios for this private litigation would have threatened the solvency of the biggest banks. That risk has dropped a lot.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bank of America's headquarters in Charlotte, N.C. The bank acquired the subprime mortgage lender Countrywide in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHUCK BURTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CRISIS (91%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); LITIGATION (72%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); EURO CRISIS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1137 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: President Warns Taxes Must Rise To Fight Deficit

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Jennifer Steinhauer and Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama pressured Republicans on Wednesday to accept higher taxes as part of any plan to pare down the federal deficit, bluntly telling lawmakers that they ''need to do their job'' and strike a deal before the United States risks defaulting on its debt.
Declaring that an agreement is not possible without painful steps on both sides, Mr. Obama said that his party had already accepted the need for substantial spending cuts in programs it had long championed, and that Republicans must agree to end tax breaks for oil and gas companies, hedge funds and other corporate interests.
In a 67-minute news conference, Mr. Obama cast the budget battle as a tug of war between the interests of the rich -- like owners of corporate jets, who he said get generous tax breaks -- and those of the middle class, the elderly and children. 
Directly challenging Republican leaders, Mr. Obama said, ''Everybody else has been willing to move off their maximalist position -- they need to do the same.''
At the same time, Mr. Obama, under assault from Republicans on the campaign trail for an unemployment rate that remains above 9 percent, asked voters to understand that the economic recovery would take time but said that Washington, even in its current financial straits, could still do more to help. He expressed support for extending a reduction in payroll taxes for an extra year, providing loans for road and bridge-building and approving trade pacts that could help spur exports.
While the president expressed hope for a budget deal before the government's borrowing authority expires in early August, he scolded Republican lawmakers for putting off hard decisions until the 11th hour, saying that his daughters did not procrastinate that way with their schoolwork.
''Malia and Sasha generally finish their homework a day ahead of time,'' the president said, in a tone of rising exasperation. ''They don't wait until the night before. They're not pulling all-nighters.''
The House speaker, John A. Boehner, flatly rejected Mr. Obama's call for new tax revenues, saying the ''president's remarks ignore legislative and economic reality.''
In a toughly worded statement, Mr. Boehner said the House would vote to raise the debt limit, as the White House has demanded, only if the administration agreed to a deal that contained deep spending cuts and no tax increases.
''The American people know tax hikes destroy jobs,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''They also know Washington has been on a spending binge for many years, and they will only tolerate a debt-limit increase if we stop it.''
Mr. Obama's news conference, his first extended exchange with reporters since March, also touched on Libya, on which he offered a brisk defense of his decision not to seek Congressional authorization for the NATO-led air campaign, and on same-sex marriage, which he stopped just short of endorsing as a legal right.
But the president's combative remarks on the budget commanded most of the attention, signaling that he had fully entered the fray. On Monday, he took over stalled talks led by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., meeting with Senate Republicans and Democrats, and on Wednesday he met with the Democrats.
So far, the president's involvement seems mainly to have dramatized the gulf between the White House and the Republicans on fiscal priorities.
By all accounts, the round of negotiations steered by Mr. Biden made significant progress in identifying spending cuts and revenue-generating items. But with the Aug. 2 deadline looming for the expiration of the government's borrowing authority, the partisan maneuvering on both sides has increased.
Senate Republicans have talked about a short-term increase in the debt ceiling, betting that the White House will accept spending cuts, with no tax increases, rather than face two votes on the issue before the 2012 election. Mr. Obama is taking aim at tax policies that benefit the rich as a way to pressure Republicans. Asserting that chief executives and hedge fund managers are paying the lowest tax rates since the 1950s, before he was born, the president, casting the issue in populist terms that some conservatives said veered into class warfare, said they could afford to pay more.
''You'll still be able to ride on your corporate jet,'' Mr. Obama said. ''You'll just have to pay a little more.''
Under Democratic proposals, owners of corporate jets would have to write off the aircrafts' cost in fewer years, which would generate an estimated $3 billion for the Treasury over a decade. Hedge funds and private equity investors would pay higher capital gains tax on their earnings. Phasing out tax deductions and credits for oil and gas companies could raise nearly $40 billion, economists said.
Even if all these changes to the tax code were accepted, they would still amount to only a sliver of the $4 trillion in savings that Mr. Obama has said he wants to achieve. But refusing to increase revenues, he asserted, would necessitate cuts in programs that award college scholarships, finance the National Weather Service and medical research, and improve food safety.
''I've said to some of the Republican leaders: you go talk to your constituents, the Republican constituents, and ask them, are they willing to compromise their kids' safety so that some corporate-jet owner continues to get a tax break?'' Mr. Obama said. ''I'm pretty sure what the answer would be.''
Citing the hours of meetings he and Mr. Biden had held with leaders from both parties, Mr. Obama seemed particularly piqued by Republican criticism that he had failed to show leadership. Noting that the House is in recess this week, and the Senate is scheduled to be gone next week, he said he had been hunkered down in the White House, ''doing Afghanistan and Bin Laden and Greek crisis.'' If Congress was serious about a deal, he said, it should cancel its breaks.
There were signs on Capitol Hill that his words had struck a nerve. Nine Republican senators announced that they would object to a recess during the Fourth of July week. Late Wednesday it appeared that Democratic leaders would go along and keep the Senate in session next week.
Wary of spooking financial markets, Mr. Obama stopped short of saying that Aug. 2 was a drop-dead date for a deal. But he dismissed those who argue that the government can ignore the debt limit by paying some bills and not others.
''This is the equivalent of me saying, 'You know what, I will choose to pay my mortgage, but I'm not going to pay my car note,' '' Mr. Obama said. ''Or, 'I'm going to pay my car note, but not my student loan.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The president said at a news conference on Wednesday that Republicans must agree to end tax breaks for corporate interests. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); DEBT CEILING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX INCREASES (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1138 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Despite Risks, Owning a Home Retains Its Allure, Poll Shows

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELDand MEGAN THEE-BRENAN; Marina Stefan and Marjorie Connelly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Owning a house remains central to Americans' sense of well-being, even as many doubt their home is a good investment after a punishing recession.
Nearly nine in 10 Americans say homeownership is an important part of the American dream, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll. And they are keen on making sure it stays that way, for themselves and everyone else.
Support for helping people in financial distress over housing is higher than support for helping those without a job for many months. 
Forty-five percent of the respondents say the government should be doing more to improve the housing market, while 16 percent say it should be doing less. On the politically contentious issue of direct financial assistance to those having trouble paying their mortgages, slightly more than half of those polled, 53 percent, say the government should help. And almost no one favors discontinuing the mortgage tax deduction, a prized middle-class benefit that has been featured on some budget-cutting proposals.
President Obama, who has been criticized for both doing too much to help the housing market and for not doing enough, was given poor marks. Only 36 percent of those polled approve of what Mr. Obama has done, while 45 percent disapprove.
In assessing blame for the housing crash, people are increasingly seeing financial institutions as the central culprit. Amid the swirl of recent disclosures about banks following improper and illegal procedures in pursuing foreclosures, 42 percent blame lenders, while 29 percent blame regulators. When the question was asked in early 2008, as the crisis was still building, the numbers were reversed, with 40 percent blaming regulators and 28 percent blaming lenders. Only a handful of respondents at either moment blamed the borrowers themselves for taking loans they could not afford.
''I believe the financial institutions willingly and knowingly allowed people to apply and receive credit at a rate higher than they could afford and this has degraded our economy,'' said Steven Goode, an environmental health manager in Las Vegas, in a follow-up interview.
Making an offer for a house, something often done in past generations with little apprehension, is now riddled with worry. Only 49 percent call it a safe investment, while 45 percent feel it is risky. In a market where prices are consistently dropping, there is no easy exit.
''For the average person, it might not be a good idea today to buy,'' said another respondent, Beth Lovcy of Troutdale, Ore., who bought a year ago. The value has already shrunk, but Mrs. Lovcy is unfazed. ''It works out better financially than renting now because we can claim the interest on the mortgage.''
As the housing market slumped over the last few years with a speed and magnitude not seen since the Great Depression, aspects of homeownership have been debated as never before. There are tough questions about the role the government should take. These include how much of a down payment lenders should demand, whether lenders should be restrictive or expansive in granting new loans, how much assistance to give those on the verge of foreclosure, and whether real estate will ever again be the retirement savings vehicle it once was.
While the debate has been loud, there was little evidence of people's views that went beyond the anecdotal. This poll offers a window onto widespread opinions at a critical juncture.
Before the crash, housing was widely deemed one of the safest possible investments. Few experts thought there was the possibility of a nationwide downturn. But after it happened, the effects were widespread and painful.
Diane Sherrell, a substitute teacher in North Carolina who retired on disability, traded up to a bigger house four years ago to accommodate an adopted son. ''It's been very difficult since then and we're barely making it,'' she said.
Half of those surveyed say the market's continuing downward spiral has affected their long-term plans. One in five people say the crisis has prevented them from moving to another city or taking a different job. Nearly one-quarter of homeowners say their home is now worth less than what they owe on their mortgage, a condition known as being underwater. Families in this predicament are much more prone to foreclosure if they suffer job losses or other setbacks.
Over all, people are bleaker about the economic outlook than those surveyed in October. While most still think the current downturn is temporary, those saying it is permanent rose to 39 percent, up from 28 percent.
In the last two years, the stock market has recovered strongly while house prices have gone sideways at best. Yet those polled dismissed stocks as a long-term savings vehicle in favor of a savings or money market account (22 percent), a house (26 percent) or a 401(k) or individual retirement account (41 percent).
Who should be helped to buy is another contentious issue. Whether buyers need to come up with a 20 percent down payment -- the standard for decades, but beyond the reach of many families now -- is hotly debated. Fifty-eight percent of respondents say lenders should require this, while 36 percent say they should not.
People who cannot pay their mortgage are foreclosed upon. If they can pay but feel that doing so is pointless on a property that has lost so much of its value, it is called strategic default. While two-thirds of Americans say strategic default is not justified, 28 percent think that it is.
When houses are abandoned for any reason, it causes trouble for the neighbors. Three-quarters of those surveyed say foreclosures are a problem in their communities.
''Our home is worth much less now because houses are foreclosing around us,'' said William Mack, an assembly line worker in Taylor, Mich.
Beyond all these ills, however, a persistent belief endures that the market will eventually improve and housing will regain its traditional importance.
Donna Boyd, a transportation supervisor in Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, acknowledged ''it might take a long time'' for property values to go back up.
''But I don't think I'm throwing my money away,'' she said in a follow-up interview. ''I rented for years when I was younger, and I just don't like the idea of putting money in someone else's pocket for something I will never own.''
The nationwide telephone poll was conducted June 24-28 with 979 adults and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points for all adults.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A home for sale in the Atlanta area. The housing market is still in a slump. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Looking at a home in Portland, Ore. Making an offer on a house now is sometimes worrisome. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHART: The New York Times CBS News Poll
 How Americans view the housing market and the economy: Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted June 24-28 with 979 adults. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); BUDGET CUTS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (51%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011



1139 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: With Sale Of MySpace, Some Relief

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
8:14 p.m. Updated MySpace, the long-suffering Web site that the News Corporation bought six years ago for $580 million, was sold Wednesday to the advertising network Specific Media for roughly $35 million.
The News Corporation, which is controlled by Rupert Murdoch, had been trying since last winter to rid itself of the unprofitable unit, which was a casualty of changing tastes and may be a cautionary tale for social companies like Zynga and LinkedIn that are currently enjoying sky-high valuations.
Relief over the sale was palpable on Wednesday, and not just at the News Corporation. Wall Street ''just wanted it done, because it's been a real drag on growth,'' said Michael Nathanson, a media sector analyst for Nomura Securities. 
Terms of the deal were not disclosed, but the News Corporation said that it would retain a minority stake. Specific Media said it had brought on board the artist Justin Timberlake as a part owner and an active player in MySpace's future, but said little else about how the site would change.
The sale closes a complex chapter in the history of the Internet and of the News Corporation, which was widely envied by other media companies when it acquired MySpace in 2005. At that time, MySpace was the world's fastest-growing social network, with 20 million unique visitors each month in the United States. That figure soon soared to 70 million, but the network could not keep pace with Facebook, which overtook MySpace two years ago.
As users fled MySpace, so, too, did advertisers. The market research firm eMarketer estimates that the site will earn about $183 million in worldwide ad revenue this year, down from $605 million at its peak, when the site introduced many Web users and many advertisers to the concept of social networking.
''It's a shame that MySpace's value has diminished so severely since the acquisition; MySpace's pioneering of social networking (now referred to as social media) will always be revered as igniting a new medium,'' Richard Rosenblatt, the chairman of MySpace at the time of the sale to the News Corporation, said in an e-mail.
Instead of envy, the News Corporation's bet on MySpace now provokes punch lines. Tom Freston, who was fired as the chief executive of Viacom in part for failing to buy MySpace, joked in an interview with CNBC earlier this year that ''I'm still waiting for a thank-you note'' from the Viacom chairman, Sumner M. Redstone.
Mr. Freston, who was in Iceland on Wednesday and said he was smiling at the news of an impending MySpace sale, declined to comment.
News Corporation executives declined interview requests on Wednesday.
It is not clear whether MySpace itself was profitable for the company. The division that houses MySpace and other digital properties has turned a profit only once in the last six years. An advertising deal with Google helped the company to recoup what it spent on MySpace in the first place, but the site became a burden on the company's earnings; by last year executives were calling the losses unacceptable. Mr. Nathanson called the site a ''headache.''
What doomed the site? Lee Brenner, the former director of MySpace's Impact section who is now the publisher of HyperVocal, wrote in a blog post Tuesday, ''I'm sure most employees (former or current) will argue that it was poor management, or a need to hit revenue targets once News Corp. took over, or a bottleneck in the technology department, or lack of resources given to their division, or a poor public relations effort, etc., that set the course of MySpace's downfall.
''Any number of these could be true,'' he continued. ''I suppose we'll never know for sure. It is most likely a combination of these factors, along with a 'low attention span' public. It probably didn't help to be doing business, and trying to grow, along with all of these issues, in the midst of a global economic crisis.''
MySpace has tried to reboot itself several times, most recently as a social destination for music, movies and other media. It has not been abandoned altogether: it still has 35 million visitors a month in the United States, according to the measurement company comScore. Facebook has 157 million visitors a month in the United States.
''It's still one of the biggest pockets of traffic on the Internet, for the price,'' said a former MySpace executive who insisted on anonymity to maintain friendships and business relationships with the News Corporation.
Mr. Timberlake said in a statement about the sale that MySpace still had the potential to be the place on the Web where ''fans can go to interact with their favorite entertainers, listen to music, watch videos, share and discover cool stuff and just connect.''
Many of the current and former MySpace users who reacted to Wednesday's sale thought differently. Many compared MySpace to Friendster, a social network that was left for dead years ago.
In preparation for the change in ownership, many of MySpace's roughly 400 employees were dismissed on Wednesday. Mike Jones, the Web site's chief executive, said in an internal memorandum that he would depart in the next two months.
''Today should be a day,'' Sean Percival, a vice president at MySpace, wrote on Twitter Wednesday morning, before the sale announcement.
He followed up later in the day, telling his online followers that Wednesday would be his last day at the company. Seemingly referring to the site's rise and fall, he wrote: ''It was a unique moment in time and an impossible problem to solve. Was proud to be a part of it.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The News Corporation, controlled by Rupert Murdoch, bought MySpace in 2005. (POOL PHOTO BY BEN GURR) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); DISMISSALS (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (60%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); MYSPACE INC (92%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); VIACOM INC (51%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%); VIA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (73%); JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (52%); SUMNER REDSTONE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ICELAND (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1140 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; TEXT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 9059 words

HEADLINE: Obama's News Conference

 BODY:
The following is a transcript of President Obama's news conference in the East Wing, as provided by the White House.
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Good morning, everybody. Have a seat, please. I just want to say a few words about the economy before I take your questions.
There are a lot of folks out there who are still struggling with the effects of the recession. Many people are still looking for work or looking for a job that pays more. Families are wondering how they'd deal with a broken refrigerator or a busted transmission, or how they're going to finance their kids' college education, and they're also worrying about the possibility of layoffs.
The struggles of middle-class families were a big problem long before the recession hit in 2007. They weren't created overnight, and the truth is our economic challenges are not going to be solved overnight. But there are more steps that we can take right now that would help businesses create jobs here in America. 
Today, our administration is trying to take those steps, so we're reviewing government regulations so that we can fix any rules in place that are an unnecessary burden on businesses. We're working with the private sector to get small businesses and start-ups the financing they need to grow and expand. And because of the partnership that we've launched with businesses and community colleges, 500,000 workers will be able to receive the right skills and training for manufacturing jobs in companies all across America -- jobs that companies are looking to fill.
In addition to the steps that my administration can take on our own, there are also things that Congress could do right now that will help create good jobs. Right now, Congress can send me a bill that would make it easier for entrepreneurs to patent a new product or idea - because we can't give innovators in other countries a big leg up when it comes to opening new businesses and creating new jobs. That's something Congress could do right now.
Right now, Congress could send me a bill that puts construction workers back on the job rebuilding roads and bridges - not by having government fund and pick every project, but by providing loans to private companies and states and local governments on the basis of merit and not politics. That's pending in Congress right now.
Right now, Congress can advance a set of trade agreements that would allow American businesses to sell more of their goods and services to countries in Asia and South America - agreements that would support tens of thousands of American jobs while helping those adversely affected by trade. That's pending before Congress right now.
And right now, we could give middle-class families the security of knowing that the tax cut I signed in December will be there for one more year.
So there are a number of steps that my administration is taking, but there are also a number of steps that Congress could be taking right now on items that historically have had bipartisan support and that would help put more Americans back to work.
Many of these ideas have been tied up in Congress for some time. But, as I said, all of them enjoy bipartisan support, and all of them would help grow the economy. So I urge Congress to act on these ideas now.
Of course, one of the most important and urgent things we can do for the economy is something that both parties are working on right now - and that's reducing our nation's deficit. Over the last few weeks, the Vice President has been leading negotiations with Democrats and Republicans on this issue, and they've made some real progress in narrowing down the differences. As of last week, both parties had identified more than $1 trillion worth of spending cuts already.
But everyone also knows that we'll need to do more to close the deficit. We can't get to the $4 trillion in savings that we need by just cutting the 12 percent of the budget that pays for things like medical research and education funding and food inspectors and the weather service. And we can't just do it by making seniors pay more for Medicare. So we're going to need to look at the whole budget, as I said several months ago. And we've got to eliminate waste wherever we find it and make some tough decisions about worthy priorities.
And that means trimming the defense budget, while still meeting our security needs. It means we'll have to tackle entitlements, as long as we keep faith with seniors and children with disabilities by maintaining the fundamental security that Medicare and Medicaid provide. And, yes, we're going to have to tackle spending in the tax code.
There's been a lot of discussion about revenues and raising taxes in recent weeks, so I want to be clear about what we're proposing here. I spent the last two years cutting taxes for ordinary Americans, and I want to extend those middle-class tax cuts. The tax cuts I'm proposing we get rid of are tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires; tax breaks for oil companies and hedge fund managers and corporate jet owners.
It would be nice if we could keep every tax break there is, but we've got to make some tough choices here if we want to reduce our deficit. And if we choose to keep those tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, if we choose to keep a tax break for corporate jet owners, if we choose to keep tax breaks for oil and gas companies that are making hundreds of billions of dollars, then that means we've got to cut some kids off from getting a college scholarship. That means we've got to stop funding certain grants for medical research. That means that food safety may be compromised. That means that Medicare has to bear a greater part of the burden. Those are the choices we have to make.
So the bottom line is this: Any agreement to reduce our deficit is going to require tough decisions and balanced solutions. And before we ask our seniors to pay more for health care, before we cut our children's education, before we sacrifice our commitment to the research and innovation that will help create more jobs in the economy, I think it's only fair to ask an oil company or a corporate jet owner that has done so well to give up a tax break that no other business enjoys. I don't think that's real radical. I think the majority of Americans agree with that.
So the good news is, because of the work that's been done, I this we can actually bridge our differences. I think there is a conceptual framework that would allow us to make huge progress on our debt and deficit, and do so in a way that does not hurt our economy right here and right now.
And it's not often that Washington sees both parties agree on the scale and the urgency of the challenge at hand. Nobody wants to put the creditworthiness of the United States in jeopardy. Nobody wants to see the United States default. So we've got to seize this moment, and we have to seize it soon. The Vice President and I will continue these negotiations with both leaders of both parties in Congress for as long as it takes, and we will reach a deal that will require our government to live within its means and give our businesses confidence and get this economy moving.
So, with that, I will take your questions. I've got my list here. Starting off with Ben Feller, Associated Press.
QUESTION: Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to follow up on the comments you just made as you try to reach a deal to raise the debt limit and cut the deficit. You keep saying that there needs to be this balanced approach of spending cuts and taxes. But Republicans say flatly, they won't --
MR. OBAMA: That they don't want a balanced approach.
QUESTION: They don't want any tax increases, as they put it. And the House Speaker says not only that he doesn't support that, but that plan won't -- will not pass the House. So my question is will you insist, ultimately, that a deal has to include those tax increases that you just laid out? Is that an absolute red line for you? And if it is, can you explain to us how that can possibly get through the Congress?
MR. OBAMA: Look, I think that what we've seen in negotiations here in Washington is a lot of people say a lot of things to satisfy their base or to get on cable news, but that hopefully, leaders at a certain point rise to the occasion and they do the right thing for the American people. And that's what I expect to happen this time. Call me naive, but my expectation is that leaders are going to lead.
Now, I just want to be clear about what's at stake here. The Republicans say they want to reduce the deficit. Every single observer who's not an elected official, who's not a politician, says we can't reduce our deficit in the scale and scope that we need to without having a balanced approach that looks at everything.
Democrats have to accept some painful spending cuts that hurt some of our constituencies and we may not like. And we've shown a willingness to do that for the greater good. To say, look, there are some things that are good programs that are nice to have; we can't afford them right now.
I, as Commander-in-Chief, have to have difficult conversations with the Pentagon saying, you know what, there's fat here; we're going to have to trim it out. And Bob Gates has already done a good job identifying $400 billion in cuts, but we're going to do more. And I promise you the preference of the Pentagon would not to cut any more, because they feel like they've already given.
So we're going to have to look at entitlements -- and that's always difficult politically. But I've been willing to say we need to see where we can reduce the cost of health care spending and Medicare and Medicaid in the out-years, not by shifting costs on to seniors, as some have proposed, but rather by actually reducing those costs. But even if we're doing it in a smart way, that's still tough politics. But it's the right thing to do.
So the question is, if everybody else is willing to take on their sacred cows and do tough things in order to achieve the goal of real deficit reduction, then I think it would be hard for the Republicans to stand there and say that the tax break for corporate jets is sufficiently important that we're not willing to come to the table and get a deal done. Or, we're so concerned about protecting oil and gas subsidies for oil companies that are making money hand over fist -- that's the reason we're not going to come to a deal.
I don't think that's a sustainable position. And the truth of the matter is, if you talk to Republicans who are not currently in office, like Alan Simpson who co-chaired my bipartisan commission, he doesn't think that's a sustainable position. Pete Domenici, Republican, co-chaired something with Alice Rivlin, the Democrat, says that's -- he doesn't think that's a sustainable position. You can't reduce the deficit to the levels that it needs to be reduced without having some revenue in the mix.
And the revenue we're talking about isn't coming out of the pockets of middle-class families that are struggling. It's coming out of folks who are doing extraordinarily well and are enjoying the lowest tax rates since before I was born.
If you are a wealthy CEO or a health -- hedge fund manager in America right now, your taxes are lower than they have ever been. They're lower than they've been since the 1950s. And you can afford it. You'll still be able to ride on your corporate jet; you're just going to have to pay a little more.
And if we -- I just want to emphasize what I said earlier. If we do not have revenues, that means there are a bunch of kids out there who are not getting college scholarships. If we do not have those revenues, then the kinds of cuts that would be required might compromise the National Weather Service. It means that we would not be funding critical medical research. It means that food inspection might be compromised. And I've said to some of the Republican leaders, you go talk to your constituents, the Republican constituents, and ask them are they willing to compromise their kids' safety so that some corporate jet owner continues to get a tax break. And I'm pretty sure what the answer would be.
So we're going to keep on having these conversations. And my belief is, is that the Republican leadership in Congress will, hopefully sooner rather than later, come to the conclusion that they need to make the right decisions for the country; that everybody else has been willing to move off their maximalist position -- they need to do the same.
QUESTION: You think they'll ultimately give in?
MR. OBAMA: My expectation is that they'll do the responsible thing.
Chuck Todd.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. There have been a lot of questions about the constitutionality -- constitutional interpretations of a few decisions you've made, so I'll just simply ask: Do you believe the War Powers Act is constitutional? Do you believe that the debt limit is constitutional, the idea that Congress can do this? And do you believe that marriage is a civil right?
MR. OBAMA: Well, that was a hodgepodge. (Laughter.) Chuck, we're going to assign you to the Supreme Court, man. (Laughter.)
I'm not a Supreme Court justice so I'm not going to -- putting my constitutional law professor hat on here. Let me focus on, initially, the issue of Libya. I want to talk about the substance of Libya because there's been all kinds of noise about process and congressional consultation and so forth. Let's talk about concretely what's happened.
Muammar Qaddafi, who, prior to Osama bin Laden, was responsible for more American deaths than just about anybody on the planet, was threatening to massacre his people. And as part of an international coalition, under a U.N. mandate that is almost unprecedented, we went in and took out air defense systems so that an international coalition could provide a no-fly zone, could protect -- provide humanitarian protection to the people on the ground.
I spoke to the American people about what we would do. I said there would be no troops on the ground. I said that we would not be carrying the lion's share of this operation, but as members of NATO, we would be supportive of it because it's in our national security interest and also because it's the right thing to do.
We have done exactly what I said we would do. We have not put any boots on the ground. And our allies -- who, historically, we've complained aren't willing to carry enough of the load when it comes to NATO operations -- have carried a big load when it comes to these NATO operations. And as a consequence, we've protected thousands of people in Libya; we have not seen a single U.S. casualty; there's no risks of additional escalation. This operation is limited in time and in scope.
So I said to the American people, here's our narrow mission. We have carried out that narrow mission in exemplary fashion. And throughout this process we consulted with Congress. We've had 10 hearings on it. We've sent reams of information about what the operations are. I've had all the members of Congress over to talk about it. So a lot of this fuss is politics.
And if you look substantively at what we've done, we have done exactly what we said to do, under a U.N. mandate, and we have protected thousands of lives in the process. And as a consequence, a guy who was a state sponsor of terrorist operations against the United States of America is pinned down and the noose is tightening around him.
Now, when you look at the history of the War Powers resolution, it came up after the Vietnam War in which we had half-a-million soldiers there, tens of thousands of lives lost, hundreds of billions of dollars spent -- and Congress said, you know what, we don't want something like that happening again. So if you're going to start getting us into those kinds of commitments you've got to consult with Congress beforehand.
And I think that such consultation is entirely appropriate. But do I think that our actions in any way violate the War Powers resolution? The answer is no. So I don't even have to get to the constitutional question. There may be a time in which there was a serious question as to whether or not the War Powers resolution -- act was constitutional. I don't have to get to the question.
We have engaged in a limited operation to help a lot of people against one of the worst tyrants in the world -- somebody who nobody should want to defend -- and we should be sending a unified message to this guy that he should step down and give his people a fair chance to live their lives without fear. And this suddenly becomes the cause celebre for some folks in Congress? Come on.
So you had, what, a three-parter? (Laughter.) What are the other two?
QUESTION: There is some question about the constitutionality of the War Powers Act.
MR. OBAMA: I'm just saying I don't have to reach it. That's a good legal answer.
(Inaudible.)
MR. OBAMA: Let me start by saying that this administration, under my direction, has consistently said we cannot discriminate as a country against people on the basis of sexual orientation. And we have done more in the two and a half years that I've been in here than the previous 43 Presidents to uphold that principle, whether it's ending ''don't ask, don't tell,'' making sure that gay and lesbian partners can visit each other in hospitals, making sure that federal benefits can be provided to same-sex couples. Across the board -- hate crimes -- we have made sure that that is a central principle of this administration, because I think it's a central principle of America.
Now, what we've also done is we've said that DOMA, the Defense of Marriage Act, is unconstitutional. And so we've said we cannot defend the federal government poking its nose into what states are doing and putting the thumb on the scale against same-sex couples.
What I've seen happen over the last several years, and what happened in New York last week I think was a good thing, because what you saw was the people of New York having a debate, talking through these issues. It was contentious; it was emotional; but, ultimately, they made a decision to recognize civil marriage. And I think that's exactly how things should work.
And so I think it is -- I think it is important for us to work through these issues -- because each community is going to be different and each state is going to be different -- to work through them. In the meantime, we filed a -- we filed briefs before the Supreme Court that say we think that any discrimination against gays, lesbians, transgenders is subject to heightened scrutiny, and we don't think that DOMA is unconstitutional [sic]. And so I think the combination of what states are doing, what the courts are doing, the actions that we're taking administratively, all are how the process should work.
Are you at all uncomfortable that there could be different rules in different states, you know, and for somebody to make the argument that's what we saw during segregation --
MR. OBAMA: Chuck, I think what you're seeing is a profound recognition on the part of the American people that gays and lesbians and transgender persons are our brothers, our sisters, our children, our cousins, our friends, our co-workers, and that they've got to be treated like every other American. And I think that principle will win out. It's not going to be perfectly smooth, and it turns out that the President -- I've discovered since I've been in this office -- can't dictate precisely how this process moves. But I think we're moving in a direction of greater equality and I think that's a good thing.
Julianna.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. I only have a two-parter. (Laughter.)
MR. OBAMA: Thanks.
QUESTION: Are you concerned that the current debate over debt and deficits is preventing you from taking the kind of decisive and more balanced action needed to create jobs in this country, which is the number one concern for Americans?
And also, one of the impediments to job growth that the business community repeatedly cites is the regulatory environment. So do you think that the NLRB complaint against Boeing, that this has created some of the -- is an example of the kinds of regulations that chill job growth, and also that you yourself have called ''just plain dumb''?
MR. OBAMA: I think it's important to understand that deficit reduction, debt reduction, should be part of an overall package for job growth over the long term. It's not the only part of it, but it's an important part of it.
So as I mentioned at the top, I think it's important for us to look at rebuilding our transportation infrastructure in this country. That could put people back to work right now -- construction workers back to work right now. And it would get done work that America needs to get done. We used to have the best roads, the best bridges, the best airports. We don't anymore. And that's not good for our long-term competitiveness.
So we could put people to work right now and make sure that we're in a good position to win the future, as well. I think --
QUESTION: -- spending and (inaudible.)
MR. OBAMA: I'm going to get to it. I think that it's important for us to look at the tax code and figure out, are there ways that we can simplify it and also build on the work that we've already done, for example, saying to small businesses or start-up businesses, you don't have to pay capital gains when you're in start-up mode, because we want you to get out there and start a business. That's important. Making sure that SBA is helping to get financing to small businesses, that's important.
So there are a whole range of things that we can be doing. I think these trade deals will be important -- because right now South Korea, frankly, has a better deal when it comes to our trading relationship than we do. Part of the reason I want to pass this trade deal is you see a whole bunch of Korean cars here in the United States and you don't see any American cars in Korea. So let's rebalance that trading relationship. That's why we should get this passed.
So there are a range of things that we could be doing right now. Deficit and debt reduction should be seen as part of that overall process, because I think if businesses feel confident that we've got our act together here in Washington, that not only is the government not going to default but we're also preparing for a future in which the population is getting older and we're going to have more expenses on the Medicare side and Social Security, that businesses will feel more confident about investing here in the United States of America.
So I don't think they're contradictory. And as I've said before, certainly in my job, but I think Congress, as well, they've got to be able to walk and chew gum at the same time. So we can focus on jobs at the same time as we're focusing on debt and deficit reduction.
Now, one of the things that my administration has talked about is, is there, in fact, a bunch of -- a tangle of regulations out there that are preventing businesses from growing and expanding as quickly as they should. Keep in mind that the business community is always complaining about regulations. When unemployment is at 3 percent and they're making record profits, they're going to still complain about regulations because, frankly, they want to be able to do whatever they think is going to maximize their profits.
I've got an obligation to make sure that we're upholding smart regulations that protect our air and protect our water and protect our food. If you're flying on a plane, you want to make sure that there are some regulations in place to assure safety in air travel, right? So there are some core regulations that we've got to maintain.
But what I have done -- and this is unprecedented, by the way, no administration has done this before -- is I've said to each agency, don't just look at current regulations -- or don't just look at future regulations, regulations that we're proposing, let's go backwards and look at regulations that are already on the books, and if they don't make sense, let's get rid of them. And we are in the process of doing that, and we've already identified changes that could potentially save billions of dollars for companies over the next several years.
Now, you asked specifically about one decision that was made by the National Labor Relations Board, the NLRB, and this relates to Boeing. Essentially, the NLRB made a finding that Boeing had not followed the law in making a decision to move a plant. And it's an independent agency. It's going before a judge. So I don't want to get into the details of the case. I don't know all the facts. That's going to be up to a judge to decide.
What I do know is this -- that as a general proposition, companies need to have the freedom to relocate. They have to follow the law, but that's part of our system. And if they're choosing to relocate here in the United States, that's a good thing. And what it doesn't make -- what I think defies common sense would be a notion that we would be shutting down a plant or laying off workers because labor and management can't come to a sensible agreement.
So my hope is, is that even as this thing is working its way through, everybody steps back for a second and says, look, if jobs are being created here in the United States, let's make sure that we're encouraging that. And we can't afford to have labor and management fighting all the time, at a time when we're competing against Germany and China and other countries that want to sell goods all around the world. And obviously, the airplane industry is an area where we still have a huge advantage, and I want to make sure that we keep it.
Mark Lander.
QUESTION: Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yesterday, Admiral McRaven testified before Congress that he was concerned that there wasn't a clear procedure to be followed if a terrorist were captured alive abroad. The administration has also been clear that it doesn't want to continue to send suspected terrorists to Guantanamo.
What message do you have for American men and women in uniform who are undertaking missions, like the very risky one to capture and kill bin Laden, about what they should do in the event that they capture someone alive? And does the lack of these clear procedures raise the risk that forces might be more inclined to kill suspected terrorists in the field, rather than capture them alive, thus depriving the U.S. of the intelligence that they could provide?
MR. OBAMA: Well, first of all, my top priority in each and every one of these situations is to make sure that we're apprehending those who would attack the United States; that we are getting all the intelligence that we can out of these individuals, in a way that's consistent with due process of law; and that we try them, we prosecute them, in a way that's consistent with rule of law.
And, frankly, there are going to be different dispositions of the case depending on the situation. And there are going to be sometimes where a military commission may be appropriate. There are going to be some times where Article III courts are appropriate in terms of prosecution. And we do have a process to work through all the agencies -- Department of Defense, Department of Justice, FBI, anybody else who might be involved in these kinds of operations -- to think through on a case-by-case basis how a particular individual should be dealt with.
And I think that when it comes to our men and women in uniform who might be carrying out these missions, the instructions are not going to be based on whether or not the lawyers can sort out how we detain them or how we prosecute them. Their mission is to make sure that they apprehend the individual; they do so safely with minimum risk to American lives. And that's always going to be the priority, is just carrying out the mission. And that message is sent consistently to our men and women in uniform anytime they start carrying out one of these missions.
But I think it's important to understand, and the American people need to be assured that anytime we initiate a mission like this, our top priorities are making sure this person is not able to carry out attacks against the United States and that we're able to obtain actionable intelligence from those individuals. And so that mitigates against this danger that you're suggesting that our main goal is going to be to kill these individuals as opposed to potentially capturing them. Okay?
Mike Emanuel, FOX.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. Last week when you gave your Afghanistan drawdown speech, the word ''victory,'' in terms of the overall war in Afghanistan, was not in your speech. So I'm wondering, sir, if you can define for the 100,000 troops you have in harm's way in Afghanistan ''victory'' in the war, and for their families, as well, sir.
MR. OBAMA: Well, I didn't use ''victory'' in my West Point speech, either. What I said was we can be successful in our mission, which is narrowly drawn, and that is to make sure that al Qaeda cannot attack the United States of America or our allies or our interests overseas, and to make sure that we have an Afghan government that -- and an Afghan people that can provide for their own security.
We are being successful in those missions. And the reason that we're in a position to draw down 10,000 troops this year and a total of 33,000 troops by the end of next summer is precisely because of the extraordinary work of our men and women in uniform. What they've been able to do is to severely cripple al Qaeda's capacities.
Obviously bin Laden got the most attention, but even before the bin Laden operation we had decimated the middle ranks and some of the upper ranks of al Qaeda. They're having a great deal of difficulty operating, a great deal of difficulty communicating and financing themselves, and we are going to keep the pressure on. And in part that's because of the extraordinary sacrifices that have been made by our men and women in uniform in Afghanistan.
What we've also been able to do is to ramp up the training of Afghan forces. So we've got an additional 100,000 Afghan troops, both Army and police, that have been trained as a consequence of this surge. And that is going to give the Afghans more capacity to defend themselves because it is in our national interest to make sure that you did not have a collapse of Afghanistan in which extremist elements could flood the zone once again, and over time al Qaeda might be in a position to rebuild itself.
So what I laid out was a plan in which we are going to be drawing down our troops from Afghanistan after 10 very long years and an enormous sacrifice by our troops. But we will draw them in a -- draw them down in a responsible way that will allow Afghanistan to defend itself and will give us the operational capacity to continue to put pressure on al Qaeda until that network is entirely defeated.
QUESTION -- the attack on the Intercontinental Hotel yesterday, sir? And does that concern you that Afghan forces may not be able to step up if these guys are able to attack a high-profile target in the nation's capital?
MR. OBAMA: Well, keep in mind the drawdown hasn't begun. So we understood that Afghanistan is a dangerous place, that the Taliban is still active, and that there are still going to be events like this on occasion. The question is, in terms of overall trend, is Afghanistan capacity increasing.
Kabul, for example, which contains a huge proportion of the Afghan population as a whole, has been largely policed by Afghan forces for quite some time. And they've done a reasonably good job. Kabul is much safer than it was, and Afghan forces in Kabul are much more capable than they were.
That doesn't mean that there are not going to be events like this potentially taking place, and that will probably go on for some time. Our work is not done. But as I said in my speech, the tide of war is receding. We have shifted to a transition phase. And much like we've seen in Iraq, where we've drawn down our troops, the remainder of our troops will be coming out by the end of this year, but Iraq has been able to maintain a democratic government and to tamp down violence there -- we think a similar approach makes sense in Afghanistan.
But even in Iraq, you still see the occasional attack. These are still countries that are digging themselves out of a lot of war, a lot of conflict. They're dangerous places. And so they're not going to be perfectly safe, even if we were there. But we can improve the chances for the Afghan people to defend themselves.
Jim Sciutto.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. You're aware that Senators Kerry and McCain have a proposal on the Senate floor to give you the leeway to continue operations in Libya for a further year. You've just said that this, from the beginning, has been an operation limited in time and scope. Initially you said days, not weeks. Are you prepared, are the American people prepared for this operation, with American support, to continue for a further year? And is there any other definition of success than Qaddafi being removed from power?
MR. OBAMA: Well, first of all, Jim, just a slight correction. What I told the American people was that the initial phase where Americans were in the lead would take days, perhaps weeks. And that's exactly what happened, right? I mean, after -- around two weeks, a little less than two weeks, we had transitioned where NATO had taken full control of the operation. So promise made, promise kept.
Second, I think when you have the former Republican nominee for President, John McCain, and the former nominee for President on the Democratic side, John Kerry, coming together to support what we're doing in Libya, that should tell the American people that this is important. And I very much appreciate their efforts in that regard.
Third, when it comes to our definitions of success, the U.N. mandate has said that we are there to make sure that you do not see a massacre directed against Libyan civilians by the Libyan regime. The Libyan regime's capacity has been greatly reduced as a consequence of our operation. That's already been successful. What we've seen both in the East and in the West is that opposition forces have been able to mobilize themselves and start getting organized, and people are starting to see the possibility of a more peaceful future on the horizon.
What is also true is, as long as Qaddafi is still presenting himself as the head of the Libyan government, and as long as he still controls large numbers of troops, the Libyan people are going to be in danger of counter-offensives and of retribution. So there is no doubt that Qaddafi stepping down from power is -- from the international community's perspective -- going to be the primary way that we can assure that the overall mission of Libya's people being protected is accomplished.
And I just want to point out -- I know it's something you know -- the International Criminal Court identified Qaddafi as having violated international law, having committed war crimes. What we've seen is reports of troops engaging in horrible acts, including potentially using rape as a weapon of war. And so when you have somebody like that in charge of large numbers of troops, I think it would be hard for us to feel confident that the Libyan people are going to be protected unless he steps down.
Now, what that means, whether there's the possibility of Libyans arriving at some sort of political settlement, that I think is something that ultimately the Libyan people are going to have to make a decision about -- because the international community is there in service of that broader goal, of a peaceful Libya.
QUESTION: Would you accept a political settlement with him involved as success from the American perspective?
MR. OBAMA: I would accept him stepping down so that he is not directing armed forces against the Libyan people. He needs to step down. He needs to go.
Laura Meckler.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. In these debt talks, would you accept -- would you like to see some sort of tax breaks aimed at stimulating the economy, even though that would of course add to the deficit itself?
And I'd also like to follow up on one of your earlier answers about same-sex marriage. You said that it's a positive step that so many states, including New York, are moving towards that. Does that mean that you personally now do support same-sex marriage, putting aside what individual states decide? Is that your personal view?
MR. OBAMA: I'm not going to make news on that today. (Laughter.) Good try, though.
And with respect to the deficit and debt talks and where we need to go, I do think it's important, since we're looking at how do we reduce the debt and deficit both in a 10-year window as well as beyond a 10-year window, to understand that one of the most important things we can do for debt and deficit reduction is to grow the economy.
And so if there are steps that in the short term may reduce the amount of cash in the treasury but in the long term mean that we're growing at 3.5 percent instead of 2.5 percent, then those ideas are worth exploring.
Obviously that was what we did in December during the lame duck session, when Democrats and Republicans came together and we said, you know what, a payroll tax cut makes sense in order to boost the economy; unemployment insurance makes sense in order to boost the economy. All that stuff puts money in people's pockets at a time when they're still struggling to dig themselves out of this recession. And so the American people have an extra thousand dollars, on average, in their pockets because of the tax cuts that we initiated. And that has helped cushion some of the tough stuff that happened in the first six months of this year, including the effects on oil prices as a consequence of what happened in the Middle East as well as what happened in Japan.
I think that it makes perfect sense for us to take a look at can we extend the payroll tax, for example, an additional year, and other tax breaks for business investment that could make a big difference in terms of creating more jobs right now.
What we need to do is to restore business confidence and the confidence of the American people that we're on track -- that we're not going to get there right away, that this is a tough slog, but that we still are moving forward. And I think that it makes sense, as we're looking at an overall package, to see, are there some things that we can do to sustain the recovery, so long as the overall package achieves our goals -- the goals that I set out, which is $4 trillion within a 10-to 12-year window, and making sure that we're bending the costs of things like health care over the long term.
QUESTION: I'm sorry, I know you don't want to say anything further on the same-sex marriage issue, but what you said before really led me to believe that that's what is in your personal mind. And I'm wondering what's the distinction you're drawing.
MR. OBAMA: Laura, I think this has been asked and answered. I'll keep on giving you the same answer until I give you a different one, all right? And that won't be today. (Laughter.)
QUESTION: That's going to be -- (inaudible.)
MR. OBAMA: Yes, exactly. I thought you'd like that one. (Laughter.)
Antonieta Cadiz? There you are.
QUESTION: Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, if you receive a mandatory E-verify bill only without legalization, are you planning to veto that deal?
And second, on Fast and Furious, members of Congress and the government of Mexico are still waiting for answers. Are you planning to replace ATF leadership? And when can we expect the results of the current investigation?
MR. OBAMA: On the second question, as you know, my attorney general has made clear that he certainly would not have ordered gun running to be able to pass through into Mexico. The investigation is still pending. I'm not going to comment on a current investigation. I've made very clear my views that that would not be an appropriate step by the ATF, and we got to find out how that happened. As soon as the investigation is completed, I think appropriate actions will be taken.
With respect to E-verify, we need comprehensive immigration reform. I've said it before. I will say it again. I will say it next week. And I'll say it six months from now. We've got to have a system that makes sure that we uphold our tradition as a nation of laws and that we also uphold our tradition as a nation of immigrants. And that means tough border security, going after employers that are illegally hiring and exploiting workers, making sure that we also have a pathway for legal status for those who are living in the shadows right now.
We may not be able to get everything that I would like to see in a package, but we have to have a balanced package. E-verify can be an important enforcement tool if it's not riddled with errors, if U.S. citizens are protected -- because what I don't want is a situation in which employers are forced to set up a system that they can't be certain works. And we don't want to expose employers to the risk where they end up rejecting a qualified candidate for a job because the list says that that person is an illegal immigrant, and it turns out that the person isn't an illegal immigrant. That wouldn't be fair for the employee and would probably get the employer in trouble as well.
So I think the goal right now is to let's continue to see if we can perfect the E-verify system. Let's make sure that we have safeguards in place to prevent the kind of scenarios that I talked about. But let's also not lose sight of some of the other components to immigration reform. For example, making sure that DREAM Act kids -- kids who have grown up here in the United States, think of themselves as Americans, who are not legal through no fault of their own, and who are ready to invest and give back to our country and go to school and fight in our military and start businesses here -- let's make sure that those kids can stay.
We need to have a more balanced approach than just a verification system.
QUESTION: (Inaudible.)
MR. OBAMA: I don't have an answer as to whether the investigation is completed yet, and it wouldn't be appropriate for me to comment on the investigation if I don't -- if it's not yet completed.
Jessica Yellin. Congratulations, your first question here.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President.
MR. OBAMA: No pressure. You're going to do great. (Laughter.)
QUESTION: Thank you. Your administration has laid out four different dates by which you've said that the debt ceiling must be raised or the U.S. would face potential dire consequences. Three of those dates have come and gone and we haven't faced financial calamity. Some of your critics have argued that these are then scare tactics to force a deal. So why should the American people believe that the August 2nd deadline is the final deadline by which a deal must be raised? And would you also spell out for us what you believe will happen if the debt ceiling is not raised by that date?
MR. OBAMA: Jessica, let's be clear. We haven't given out four different dates. We have given out dates that are markers for us getting into trouble. It's the equivalent of you're driving down the street and the yellow light starts flashing. The yellow light is flashing. Now, it hasn't been a red light yet. So what Tim Geithner has said is, technically speaking, we're in a position now where we're having to do a whole bunch of things to make sure that our bills are paid.
By August 2nd, we run out of tools to make sure that all our bills are paid. So that is a hard deadline. And I want everybody to understand that this is a jobs issue. This is not an abstraction. If the United States government, for the first time, cannot pay its bills, if it defaults, then the consequences for the U.S. economy will be significant and unpredictable. And that is not a good thing.
We don't know how capital markets will react. But if capital markets suddenly decide, you know what, the U.S. government doesn't pay its bills, so we're going to start pulling our money out, and the U.S. Treasury has to start to raise interest rates in order to attract more money to pay off our bills, that means higher interest rates for businesses; that means higher interest rates for consumers. So all the headwinds that we're already experiencing in terms of the recovery will get worse.
That's not my opinion. I think that's a consensus opinion. And that means that job growth will be further stymied, it will be further hampered, as a consequence of that decision. So that's point number one.
Point number two, I want to address what I've been hearing from some quarters, which is, well, maybe this debt limit thing is not really that serious; we can just pay interest on the debt. This idea has been floating around in some Republican circles.
This is the equivalent of me saying, you know what, I will choose to pay my mortgage, but I'm not going to pay my car note. Or I'm going to pay my car note but I'm not going to pay my student loan. Now, a lot of people in really tough situations are having to make those tough decisions. But for the U.S. government to start picking and choosing like that is not going to inspire a lot of confidence.
Moreover, which bills are we going to decide to pay? These guys have said, well, maybe we just pay the interest on -- for bondholders. So are we really going to start paying interest to Chinese who hold treasuries and we're not going to pay folks their Social Security checks? Or we're not going to pay to veterans for their disability checks? I mean, which bills, which obligations, are we going to say we don't have to pay?
And last point I want to make about this. These are bills that Congress ran up. The money has been spent. The obligations have been made. So this isn't a situation -- I think the American people have to understand this -- this is not a situation where Congress is going to say, okay, we won't -- we won't buy this car or we won't take this vacation. They took the vacation. They bought the car. And now they're saying maybe we don't have to pay, or we don't have to pay as fast as we said we were going to, or -- that's not how responsible families act. And we're the greatest nation on Earth, and we can't act that way.
So this is urgent and it needs to get settled.
QUESTION: So is August 2nd a yellow light or a red light?
MR. OBAMA: I think people should think of -- look, I'm the President of the United States and I want to make sure that I am not engaging in scare tactics. And I've tried to be responsible and somewhat restrained so that folks don't get spooked.
August 2nd is a very important date. And there's no reason why we can't get this done now. We know what the options are out there. This is not a technical problem any longer. This is a matter of Congress going ahead and biting the bullet and making some tough decisions. Because we know what the decisions are. We've identified what spending cuts are possible. We've identified what defense cuts are possible. We've identified what health care cuts are possible. We've identified what loopholes in the tax code can be closed that would also raise revenue. We've identified what the options are. And the question now is are we going to step up and get this done.
And, you know, Malia and Sasha generally finish their homework a day ahead of time. Malia is 13, Sasha is 10.
QUESTION Impressive.
MR. OBAMA: It is impressive. They don't wait until the night before. They're not pulling all-nighters. (Laughter.) They're 13 and 10. Congress can do the same thing. If you know you've got to do something, just do it.
And I've got to say, I'm very amused when I start hearing comments about, well, the President needs to show more leadership on this. Let me tell you something. Right after we finished dealing with the government shutdown, averting a government shutdown, I called the leaders here together. I said we've got to get done -- get this done. I put Vice President Biden in charge of a process -- that, by the way, has made real progress -- but these guys have met, worked through all of these issues. I met with every single caucus for an hour to an hour and a half each -- Republican senators, Democratic senators; Republican House, Democratic House. I've met with the leaders multiple times. At a certain point, they need to do their job.
And so, this thing, which is just not on the level, where we have meetings and discussions, and we're working through process, and when they decide they're not happy with the fact that at some point you've got to make a choice, they just all step back and say, well, you know, the President needs to get this done -- they need to do their job.
Now is the time to go ahead and make the tough choices. That's why they're called leaders. And I've already shown that I'm willing to make some decisions that are very tough and will give my base of voters further reason to give me a hard time. But it's got to be done.
And so there's no point in procrastinating. There's no point in putting it off. We've got to get this done. And if by the end of this week, we have not seen substantial progress, then I think members of Congress need to understand we are going to start having to cancel things and stay here until we get it done.
They're in one week, they're out one week. And then they're saying, Obama has got to step in. You need to be here. I've been here. I've been doing Afghanistan and bin Laden and the Greek crisis. You stay here. Let's get it done.
All right. I think you know my feelings about that. (Laughter.)
Caren Bohan.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. You talked about the payroll tax holiday and possibly extending that. Are you worried, though, that by adding a discussion of short-term measures on the economy into these discussions about long-term deficit reductions that that may complicate the conversation and make it harder to pass a debt limit?
MR. OBAMA: I will -- let me put it this way. If we've got a good deal on debt and deficit reduction that focuses not just on the 10-year window but also the long term, we will get it done. And then we can argue about some other things -- because I think that's very important.
I will say that precisely because tough votes in Congress are often avoided, that it may make sense to also deal with something like a payroll tax cut at the same time -- because it does have budget implications and the American people need to know that we're focused on jobs and not just on deficit reduction, even though, as I said, deficit reduction helps to serve the job agenda. I think they want to have some confidence that we've got a plan that's helping right now.
But I don't think it should be a complicating factor -- because if Mitch McConnell and John Boehner came to me and said, all right, we're ready to make a deal, here's a balanced approach to debt and deficit reduction, but we want to argue about payroll tax cuts later, they're not set to expire until the end of this year -- if that was a situation that they presented, then I think we would have a serious conversation about that. I would not discount that completely.
I do think that the steps that I talked about to deal with job growth and economic growth right now are vitally important to deficit reduction. Just as deficit reduction is important to grow the economy and to create jobs -- well, creating jobs and growing the economy also helps reduce the deficit. If we just increased the growth rate by one percentage point, that would drastically bring down the long-term projections of the deficit, because people are paying more into the coffers and fewer people are drawing unemployment insurance. It makes a huge difference.
And this may be sort of a good place to wrap up. You know, every day I get letters from folks all around the country who show incredible resilience, incredible determination, but they are having a very, very tough time. They're losing their homes. Some have lost their businesses. Some have lost work and have not been able to find jobs for months, maybe a year, maybe a year and a half. And they feel some desperation. And some folks who are working just are having a tough time paying the bills because they haven't seen their wages or incomes go up in 10 years, and the costs of everything else have gone up.
And every day that weighs on me. Every minute of every day that weighs on me. Because I ran for President precisely to make sure that we righted this ship and we start once again creating a situation where middle-class families and people who aspire to be in the middle class, if they're working hard, then they're living a better life.
Now, these structural changes in our economy that have been going on for a decade -- in some cases, longer -- they're not going to be solved overnight. But we know what to do. We know that if we are educating our kids well, then they're going to be more competitive. We know that if we are investing in things like infrastructure, it pays off.
I was in Alcoa, in Iowa, one of our most successful companies. They took a big hit during the recession, but they still invested $90 million in new equipment in a plant that makes airplane wings and parts for automobiles. And they've bounced back. They've hired back all their people and are increasing market share because they made those investments.
Well, just like a company like Alcoa, America has got to make some investments. We know that we've got to get control of our deficit. There are some things that aren't going to solve all our problems but can make progress right now. And the question is whether or not Democrats and Republicans are willing to put aside the expedience of short-term politics in order to get it done.
And these folks are counting on us. They desperately want to believe that their leadership is thinking about them and not playing games. And I think that if all the leadership here in Washington has the faces and the stories of those families in mind, then we will solve this debt limit issue; we will put in place steps like a payroll tax cut and infrastructure development; we'll continue to fund education; we'll hold true to our commitment to our seniors.
These are solvable problems, but it does require us just getting out of the short-term and, frankly, selfish approach that sometimes politics breeds. We've got to think a bit long term.
Thank you very much, everybody.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); FAMILY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); LAYOFFS (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX LAW (66%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (65%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1141 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: In Connecticut, Affluent Image But Fiscal Pain

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

 BODY:
Think of Connecticut, and what comes to mind are the swells of Greenwich, the exurban good life of Litchfield County, the land of New England steady habits. By some measures America's richest state, it still evokes images of Yankee stability and enterprise relatively immune to the nation's economic and political tumult.
The reality is different. For the past two decades, the state has finished dead last nationally in creating new jobs. A recent forecast by an industrial consulting firm, IHS Global Insight, projected it would also finish last in job creation over the next five years. 
Connecticut's finances are among the most troubled in the nation: it is last or close to last in financing pension obligations and retaining reserves for emergencies, and near the top in per-capita debt. And on Tuesday, Moody's lowered its outlook for the state's bond rating to negative from stable.
Despite already passing the largest package of tax increases in state history, legislators must return to Hartford on Thursday after an agreement with the state employee unions imploded. But the unbalanced budget is hardly the only problem. Connecticut, despite its affluent image and past successes, is facing a startling series of economic and fiscal challenges that it now has no option but to confront.
''No state had more resources and did less with them over the past 20 years,'' said William E. Curry Jr., a former Democratic candidate for governor who now writes about state and national politics. ''Yeah, we wiped out in finance and real estate, but the real problem was our own poor choices.
''We tried to import jobs you must grow yourself. We tried to save cities with ballparks and convention centers. We borrowed like shopaholics, shortchanged pension funds and barely showed up for collective bargaining.''
Gov. Dannel P. Malloy, a Democrat elected last year, recommended this week that the state eliminate 6,500 jobs -- 5,500 through layoffs and the rest by attrition -- to help close a projected $700 million deficit in the coming year. The hole was created last week when unions rejected a plan, negotiated by their leaders, that called for wage freezes for two years and a no-layoff guarantee for four years, as well as concessions on pensions and health care. Though 57 percent of union members approved the plan, it failed because collective bargaining rules required that at least 14 of the 15 unions ratify it and that the approving unions represent 80 percent of workers.
The stakes are enormous for Mr. Malloy, who has built a Connecticut-esque image as a rare governor charting a balanced path amid anti-union sentiment; for Democrats who control the legislature and have close ties to the unions; and for the unions themselves, which infuriated many allies by turning down a deal seen as far better than those being offered in other states.
After approving large tax increases this spring, mostly on sales and services, Mr. Malloy has said he would reject any additional ones. And though he was elected with strong union support, he said Wednesday that he now wanted to impose benefit cuts on the unions and would ask the General Assembly to pass legislation changing the way employees' pensions are calculated, reducing their sick days and freezing longevity payments.
But, according to many experts, the stakes are highest for the state itself. After two decades of stagnation, they say, the state cannot afford the short-term torpedo of mass layoffs at a time of high joblessness; the long-term hit of chaotic, ineffectual state government; or the old option of papering over liabilities with gimmicks and debt.
Fred V. Carstensen, director of the Connecticut Center for Economic Analysis at the University of Connecticut, said the state faced two major, interrelated problems.
The first is fiscal. Due in large part to a 20-year labor agreement negotiated by Gov. John G. Rowland in 1997, Connecticut has been locked into an increasingly untenable relationship with its employees. Under that contract, the state is obligated to pay 10 times as much for employee pension costs as workers do -- the second-highest ratio among the 10 largest state pension systems, after Florida. But it has not been paying what it owes into the pension system. A 2010 report said Connecticut had the second-highest unfunded pension liability per capita in the country, after Alaska, at more than $4,500 per resident.
The second problem is an abysmal level of job creation and economic growth that has left the state with fewer workers employed now than in 1987. Professor Carstensen cited numerous reasons: an aging population; ineffective economic development strategies and bureaucracies; a weak community- and technical-college system unable to respond to the specific needs of businesses; excessive dependence on large companies, which tend to be the worst job producers; and inconsistent policies on corporate tax credits.
Beyond the numbers is a chasm between the state's affluent suburbs and its poor cities, particularly Bridgeport and Hartford, giving Connecticut the nation's worst academic achievement gap between poor students and their wealthier peers.
Everyone agrees that the state has been hurt by the long-term decline of traditional manufacturing jobs, but there is plenty of debate over who is responsible for the distress. Democrats blame the Republican governors, Mr. Rowland and M. Jodi Rell, who were in office from 1995 until this year, saying neither showed serious interest in enacting meaningful economic development programs. They say Mr. Rowland in particular was partial to splashy, piecemeal projects like the struggling Adriaen's Landing, which was supposed to revive Hartford, and they also blame him for the 20-year deal with the unions.
Republicans, however, say Democrats -- who had vetoproof control of the legislature for much of Mr. Rowland's and Ms. Rell's tenures -- are responsible for the inflated benefits for unionized workers, who have been consistent Democratic supporters. Unions might also point to what they see as a failure to tax the state's ultra-wealthy adequately.
Professor Carstensen said the deal the unions rejected last week could have addressed both economic and budgetary issues by avoiding the shock of mass layoffs and attacking structural problems in state government, particularly unfunded liabilities in retiree health care costs and pensions.
Instead, the state seems to have two options. Union leaders declined on Monday to ratify their members' vote against the agreement, indicating that some would like to salvage it, probably through a revote or changes to ratification rules. For now, Mr. Malloy and the legislature seem intent on pursuing the alternative of mass layoffs and program cuts: precisely the path the governor said he wanted to avoid.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Dannel P. Malloy may cut 6,500 state jobs after unions rejected a wage freeze and pension and health care concessions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA HILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (88%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); APPROVALS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (74%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); BONDS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); TAX LAW (67%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (63%)

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011



1142 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: Who Is the Mystery Hamptons Moneybags?

BYLINE: KEVIN ROOSE


HIGHLIGHT: An ATM receipt left behind that showed a remaining balance of $99,864,731.94 is sparking speculation about who might keep so much in a savings account.

 BODY:
The hunt is on for the New York mogul with questionable cash management skills.
Speculation bubbled on Wednesday after a receipt left hanging out of a Capital One ATM in East Hampton that displayed its owner's remaining balance as $99,864,731.94 -- yes, that would be $99 million and change -- was posted on Dealbreaker. 
The receipt, which appears to show a $400 cash withdrawal from a savings account plus a $2.75 ATM fee, was rumored to belong to the Appaloosa Management honcho David Tepper, who made billions during the housing collapse. 
It wouldn't be out of character for Mr. Tepper, a profligate spender and Hamptons regular who once mused to New York magazine's Jessica Pressler about how he could spend his billions. "I could buy an island. I could buy a private jet -- but I have NetJets. I could get myself a 22-year-old!"
But The New York Post said on Thursday that it had contacted Mr. Tepper, who denied owning the account. 
Commenters over at Dealbreaker have zeroed in on the wisdom of keeping an eight-figure balance in an account that may not even pay 1 percent interest. (Bankrate.com lists the largest interest rate for a so-called "jumbo" savings account at 1.14 percent, from Delaware's Discover Bank.) But others have noted that some brokerage firms allow you to withdraw from your trading account as if it were a savings account, in which case the account's yield could be much higher.
Until a well-heeled Hamptonite claims the ATM receipt, DealBook will be working the phones in search of an answer. Paulson? Schwarzman? Mayor Bloomberg?

        
Questioned for Sino Holdings, Paulson Scores Big Elsewhere
        
Irish Banks Edge Closer to Stress Test Results

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (91%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%) ATM; banks; David Tepper; Hamptons; Tepper, David A; Savings; Capital One Financial Corporation; East Hampton (NY); Capital One Financial Corporation|COF|NYSE; Top Headline 2; Wealth

COMPANY: NETJETS INC (56%); DISCOVER BANK (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Capital One Financial Corporation

TICKER: Capital One Financial Corporation; COF; NYSE

INDUSTRY: SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Tepper, David A

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) East Hampton (NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1143 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Nurturing Start-Ups and Small Businesses Around the World, Part 2

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: By many measurements, America is friendlier to small businesses than most other developed countries are.

 BODY:
In an earlier post, I looked at some new data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development that showed the small-business presence in the United States to be somewhat weaker than in peer countries.
Somehow, though, by many measurements America appears to have an economic environment that is far friendlier to small and new companies.
The administrative burden required to start a new company, for example, is relatively low in the United States compared with most other developed and emerging markets.
The O.E.C.D. looked at a composite measure reflecting the "procedures, time and costs necessary to incorporate and register a new firm with up to 50 employees and start-up capital of 10 times the economy's per-capita gross national income." This metric found Mexico and China to be most restrictive, while Ireland and Germany to be the least. The United States is on the less-restrictive end of the spectrum.
The United States also has a good venture capital market. Venture capital spending in America adds up to about 9 percent of the country's gross domestic product -- a higher percentage than any other country the O.E.C.D. looked at except for Israel. Israel's venture capital spending as a share of the economy is about twice that.
And on other measures, entrepreneurs are looked upon especially favorably by Americans, according to survey conducted annually by the European Commission Directorate-General Enterprise and Industry.
The latest survey, conducted between Dec. 10, 2009, and Jan. 16, 2010, covered 36 countries. In response to a question about "your opinion about entrepreneurs (self-employed, business owners)," 73.4 percent of Americans polled said they had a "rather favorable" attitude toward this group. That was among the most positive responses from the countries surveyed.
Given a climate so favorable to entrepreneurs, what might account for the fact that self-employment and other measures of entrepreneurship are lower in the United States than in many other developed countries? Any suggestions, readers?

        
Nurturing Start-Ups and Small Businesses Around the World, Part 1
        
America's (Very Small) Small-Business Sector
        
Mexicans Work the Longest Hours
        
The World Is Fat
        
The Job Market for Immigrants

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STARTUPS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); TRENDS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); IMMIGRATION (60%) entrepreneurship; international economics; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; small businesses; Economic Conditions and Trends; Small Business

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1144 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: The Wageless, Profitable Recovery

BYLINE: STEVEN GREENHOUSE


HIGHLIGHT: A study finds the current recovery unusually skewed in favor of corporate profits and against increased wages for workers.

 BODY:
Economists at Northeastern University have found that the current economic recovery in the United States has been unusually skewed in favor of corporate profits and against increased wages for workers.
 In their newly released study, the Northeastern economists found that since the recovery began in June 2009 following a deep 18-month recession, "corporate profits captured 88 percent of the growth in real national income while aggregate wages and salaries accounted for only slightly more than 1 percent" of that growth.
 The study, "The 'Jobless and Wageless Recovery' From the Great Recession of 2007-2009," said it was "unprecedented" for American workers to receive such a tiny share of national income growth during a recovery.
 According to the study, between the second quarter of 2009, when the recovery began, and the fourth quarter of 2010, national income rose by $528 billion, with $464 billion of that growth going to pretax corporate profits, while just $7 billion went to aggregate wages and salaries, after accounting for inflation. The share of income growth going to employee compensation was far lower than in the four other economic recoveries that have occurred over the last three decades, the study found. 
 "The lack of any net job growth in the current recovery combined with stagnant real hourly and weekly wages is responsible for this unique, devastating outcome," wrote the report's authors, Andrew Sum, Ishwar Khatiwada, Joseph McLaughlin and Sheila Palma. 
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, average real hourly earnings for all employees actually declined by 1.1 percent from June 2009, when the recovery began, to May 2011, the month for which the most recent earnings numbers are available.
 The authors said another factor explaining the weak performance for aggregate wages and salaries was the slow growth in weekly hours during the recovery. At the same time, worker productivity has grown just under 6 percent since the recovery began, helping to keep employment down while lifting corporate profits, the study said.
Professor Sum noted that the aggregate wage and salary figures exclude employer contributions to benefits and payroll taxes, while they include bonuses, overtime, commissions and tips.
He said that nonwage benefits rose in real terms by $27 billion during the first seven quarters of the recovery. "These small gains were exactly offset by a similar $27 billion loss in real wages and salaries over the same time period based on newly released data from the Bureau of Economic Analysis," he said. "It was a wageless and jobless recovery."
The study called that $27 billion loss in aggregate wages and salaries during the seven quarters after the recovery began "the first ever such decline in any post-World War II recovery."
The study said that of the previous recoveries since the 1970s, the recovery following the 2000-1 recession was next worst in terms of the share of increased income going to wages and salaries. The study found that 15 percent of income growth went to aggregate wages and salaries in the six quarters after the recovery began following that recession, while 53 percent went to corporate profits. The growth in national income can also go to net interest, rental income or proprietors' income.
 The story was very different for the recovery that began in 1991. In that recovery, 50 percent of the growth in national income went to wages and salaries during the first six quarters after the recession ended, while corporate profits actually fell by 1 percent during that period.
With regard to corporate profits, the report noted that the preliminary estimate for the first quarter of 2011 was $1.668 trillion, an increase of $465 billion of just under 40 percent since the recovery began. 
 "Aggregate employment still has not increased above the trough quarter of 2009, and real hourly and weekly wages have been flat to modestly negative," the report concludes. "The only major beneficiaries of the recovery have been corporate profits and the stock market and its shareholders."

        
The Logic of Cutting Corporate Taxes
        
How Businesses Create Wealth
        
 Why College Brings a Huge Return
        
Cars as a Harbinger of an Upturn
        
Man vs. Machine

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (95%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RECESSION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); OVERTIME (77%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); STATISTICS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); WRITERS (70%); WORLD WAR II (50%) corporate profits; recovery; wages; Corporations; United States Economy; Wages and Salaries; Northeastern University

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (94%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%) Northeastern University

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1145 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Is America Really the Land of Entrepreneurship and Small Business?

BYLINE: YOU'RE THE BOSS EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: A report looks at which countries are most nurturing of small businesses.

 BODY:
Our colleagues at Economix have published a post, based on a report from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, that questions whether small businesses have as strong a presence in the United States as they do around the world. (A follow-up post looks at indicators that the economic environment is far friendlier to small and new companies in the United States than elsewhere.)

        
Business Life After Death in Rwanda
        
Helping Small Businesses That Really Know About Ups and Downs
        
How We Decided to Go Global
        
Introducing Sustainable Profits: Turning Waste Into Profit
        
Eight Fallacies of Entrepreneurship

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%) Entrepreneurship; going global

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RWANDA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1146 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: The Impossible Public Pensions Choices

BYLINE: RON LIEBER


HIGHLIGHT: Who should sacrifice now that the pension bill is coming due for state and local workers?

 BODY:
Last summer, I wrote about a brewing court battle in Colorado. At issue was the question of whether the state could reduce the annual cost-of-living adjustments for the pensions of state workers who were already retired.
I noted that the battle was the sort of thing we'd be seeing a lot more often as states and municipalities grew ever more reluctant to make taxpayers foot the bill for retirement benefits that now seemed outsize.
Well, this week the court in Colorado (and another one in Minnesota) found for the state and not the workers.
The workers will probably appeal, and we'll probably spend years watching cases like these wind their way through the legal system. The battles will be fought in the legislatures, too. Already this year we've seen several states, including Wisconsin and New Jersey, demand more pension contributions from workers.
The big picture question, however, remains one that is more moral than economic. Decades ago, we made promises to government workers. Now, depending on your view, those promises have turned out to be too generous. Or they were based on funny math or absurd predictions of long-term stock market performance. Or they were undermined by the financial crisis, and it's all the bankers' fault.
Whatever your view, we now face a choice: Should all taxpayers (including the retired workers themselves) pay a lot more in taxes and accept large cuts in government services to pay for the promises to government employees? Or should we break the promises (by a little -- or more than a little) because they have turned out to cost too much?

        
Longevity Insurance: Buying Down the Risks of Living Too Long
        
Getting Cheaper Vanguard Funds in Your 401(k)
        
Online Treasury Sales Challenge Elderly Investors
        
Charles Schwab to Offer Index-Only 401(k) Plans
        
Lobbying for a Better 401(k) Plan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); LOBBYING (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%) Colorado; Minnesota; pensions; Retirement; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Wisconsin

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (53%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Colorado; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1147 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Patriarchy, Liberty and The 160 Million

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Debating the connection between female empowerment and sex-selective abortion.

 BODY:
My column on Mara Hvistendahl's book noted that in many developing countries, "female empowerment often seems to have led to more sex selection, not less." Adam Serwer thinks that idea is self-evidently ridiculous:If "women's empowerment" led to sex-selective abortion, that would offer a powerful argument against abortion since everyone agrees sex-selective abortion is bad. The problem is that even abortion rights supporters think sex-selective abortion is bad, and the reason is because sex-selective abortion is obviously reflective of coercion by culture if not the state. Despite having elected female heads of state, Indian culture retains many patriarchal elements, chief among them the fact that having female children is really expensive because parents are expected to pay the families of their daughters' husbands elaborate dowries.
...
Perhaps it seems obvious, but that kind of blatant economic incentive against having female children doesn't exist in the United States. Does Douthat really believe that's the result of women being "less empowered" here? Simply making abortion legal doesn't amount to "women's empowerment," especially in a society where women are coerced into ending pregnancies by their husbands or society at large.I think a clearer version of the sentence that Serwer finds objectionable would have read "increasing female empowerment often seems to have led to more sex selection, not less." I wasn't suggesting that women are "less empowered" in the United States than in India or China, or that female empowerment of any sort necessarily leads to sex-selective abortion. My point, based on Hvistendahl's reporting, is that all good things don't go together, or at least not at first: As a developing society becomes richer, more technologically advanced and less rigidly patriarchal, there's a period in which a cultural preference for boys leads women - often beginning with women in the upper classes, not the poor and economically-insecure - to use their newfound freedoms to have many more sons than daughters. In other words, the story of sex-selective abortion has something do with patriarchy, but it isn't usually a clear-cut case of women being "coerced into ending pregnancies by their husbands or society at large," as Serwer puts it. (Hvistendahl notes that cases where husbands pressure their wives to abort account for "only a small portion of Asia's sex selective abortions," and marshals examples of women concealing sex-selective abortions from husbands who object.) The "coercion" that's involved, if you want to call it that, is often more a problem of what the Marxists would call "false consciousness" than an issue of women lacking legal freedoms and formal agency.
In other words, while there probably exists a point of development at which the bias toward sons dissolves (or at least weakens sufficiently to create a stigma around sex selection), the gradual transition from patriarchy to gender equality creates a long period in which women themselves choose to abort more girls than boys. And if you believe, as Serwer does, that you simply can't have genuine female empowerment without unrestricted abortion, then there's nothing to be done to live with this reality, try to hasten the day when Asia becomes Scandinavia, and hope that gender ratios don't get too skewed along the way.
Or as Jonathan Last puts it, rather more pungently:Let's pretend for a moment that the only source of the problem really is patriarchy. Well, then, you have two choices: Do you confront the slaughter of millions of girls by "fighting" patriarchal culture in some nebulous way that may, or may not, after several decades, pay off? Or do you outlaw abortion, enforce the ban pretty rigorously (by sending doctors who perform them to jail) and understand that while there will still be illegal abortions which slip through the cracks, girl babies won't be targeted as widely and that the vast majority of those who would have been killed in the gendercide will be allowed life?
I think I can guess where Serwer would come down. Which is fine. But you must then realize that all the posturing about how terrible it is that girls keep getting aborted is really just a second-order concern. Again, that's fine. But if that's what you believe, you should have the courage to say it out loud.To which Serwer retorts:... Last's right, if you don't actually care about whether women have the right to make decisions about when they have children, then the "solution" to the problem is rather simple. Liberals would prefer a society in which women have the autonomy to make their own decisions, free of coercion from the state or social custom.
... Where liberals see a problem of prejudice or oppression through culture and custom, conservatives simply see an opportunity to argue that women should be forced to carry children to term.I think Serwer is basically saying it out loud. (Though he would presumably dispute Last's description of a female fetus as a "baby girl.") In his worldview, the right to terminate a pregnancy is a fundamental liberty, like freedom of speech or freedom to worship, and fundamental liberties by definition trump consequentialist arguments about their negative effects. Pro-choice liberals may care (deeply, in many cases) about those negative effects. But their principles come first, and those principles rule out the most direct approach to combating sex-selective abortion in the developing world and permit only very gradual and indirect approaches instead.
This isn't an unusual situation. Every vision of human liberty requires tolerating certain evils in the name of individual rights, and there's nothing inherently wrong with erring on the side of freedom, and then trying ameliorate its side effects.
But some evils are more striking than others, and some definitions of liberty more dubious - and the graver the evil you're tolerating, the more likely that your philosophical premises have gone awry. Which is why the pro-life side is well within its rights to point out that the liberal West's current vision of human freedom bears responsibility for 160 million (and counting) missing girls.

        
Abortion and the Missing 160 Million
        
Class and the Culture War
        
On Will Saletan's Abortion Compromise
        
Why We Have a Culture War
        
More on 1970s Nostalgia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ABORTION (95%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); FAMILY (75%); MARRIAGE (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%) abortion; Asia; Culture Wars; liberalism; Sex and Marriage

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1148 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(On Par)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: SPORTS; golf

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Omega Is Expanding Golf Profile in U.S.

BYLINE: LARRY DORMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Swiss watch brand and the P.G.A. of America will announce a five-year deal that would make Omega the official timepiece of the P.G.A. Championship, the Senior P.G.A. Championship and the PGA Grand Slam of Golf, as well as the 2012 and 2014 Ryder Cups.

 BODY:
NEWTOWN SQUARE, Pa. - Ever since Arnold Palmer clicked the clasp on his first Rolex wristwatch in 1967, the timepiece has been the go-to brand in well-healed golf circles. Now it faces competition from an old rival that has become the new face of one of the four major championships and the Ryder Cup matches. 
The Swiss brand Omega and the P.G.A. of America will announce a five-year deal Friday that would make Omega the official timepiece of the P.G.A. Championship, the Senior P.G.A. Championship and the PGA Grand Slam of Golf, as well as the 2012 and 2014 Ryder Cups.
Omega, a privately-held company with worldwide earnings of $7.1 billion in 2010, is expecting the partnership to raise its golf profile and expand its reach in the United States, from which it derived roughly 10 percent of its sales last year.
Best known in the sports marketing world for its long-term sponsorship of the Olympic Games, beginning in 1932, Omega is invested in golf in Europe, where it sponsors the European Masters, and in Asia, where it sponsors the World Cup of Golf at Mission Hills in Shenzhen, China.
The president of Omega, Stephen Urquhart, said in a telephone interview Thursday that the timing of the company's expanded investment dovetails with improving economic conditions in the United States, Omega's investments in retail stores in New York and Los Angeles -- with 16 more stores planned in the States this year -- and the return of golf to the Olympic Games in 2016.
"We felt this is the correct moment in the U.S. for several reasons," Urquhart said. "It is fantastic to expand our role in the U.S. market, which is still by far the No. 1 golfing market in the world. The partnership with the P.G.A. of America is a perfect fit because we, as a global company, have common goals with growing the business of golf in the world."
The partnership idea originated nine months ago at the suggestion of Greg Norman, who endorses the Omega brand and who is also close to P.G.A. of America officials. Negotiations began six months ago in November. Financial terms of the agreement were not disclosed. 
Joe Steranka, the chief executive officer of the P.G.A. of America, said the agreement had substantial upside for both organizations, pointing to the "strength of the North American golf industry" as one benefit that stands out for Omega.
"While golf in America faces the same challenges that many retail industries do these days, we're still over 60 percent of the global G.D.P. of golf," Steranka said, "and with 23 million players, almost half of the world's golf population. Our other unique assets are that we have two of the top five events in the world in the P.G.A. Championship and the Ryder Cup."
Urquhart stressed the importance of the role that the 27,000 P.G.A. of America professionals will have in making the partnership a success.
"As a luxury brand selling fine timepieces to both men and women of all ages, we recognize that all the professionals who teach these people and work with them every week will be fantastic ambassadors for our brand," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOLF TOURNAMENTS (92%); FINE WATCHES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); GOLF (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); RETAILERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Omega; Golf

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (70%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (56%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1149 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: City Opera Players Provide Their Own Accompaniment at Labor Protest

BYLINE: DANIEL J. WAKIN


HIGHLIGHT: New York City Opera musicians protest to keep the financially troubled orchestra from moving from its Lincoln Center home.

 BODY:
A brass quintet from New York City Opera's orchestra played tunes from "Carmen," "Aida" and "La Boheme" on the sidewalk in front of Lincoln Center Plaza on Thursday. A sanitation truck driver honked in solidarity. Protesters held signs denouncing the company's leader and demanding that he not move City Opera from the cultural complex.
Under crystalline skies and surrounded by balmy breezes, the musical demonstration by several dozen choristers and musicians, many in concert black, was a time-tested means of labor protest for orchestra players. The artists were adding their voices to the calls of many others in the music world, including Julius Rudel, the company's former general director and principal conductor, to keep City Opera at Lincoln Center.
George Steel, the company's general manager and artistic director, has announced the financially ailing company would leave the David H. Koch Theater, which he said costs too much.
Underneath the seemingly jovial protest to the move was a serious subtext: the musicians say their collective bargaining agreement requires orchestra consent for any performances outside of Lincoln Center or City Center, the company's former home. Gail Kruvand, the chairwoman of the orchestra's negotiating committee, was asked if the demonstration's no-move message was effectively a denial of consent.
"One could draw that conclusion," she said, adding that Mr. Steel has yet to discuss the move with the committee. "It's an issue to be negotiated," she said. Mr. Steel announced the decision on May 20, but has yet to disclose what or where the company will perform. 
The orchestra's contract expired on May 31 but the terms remain in effect, Ms. Kruvand said. She acknowledged that Mr. Steel could move the company without union permission, but said that would complicate his bargaining position. "He wants to turn this into a minor league presenting organization," she said.
A telephone call and e-mail to the company's spokeswoman were not immediately responded to. City Opera orchestra musicians leafleted a company-sponsored concert at the Winter Garden of the World Financial Center on Tuesday evening. They also have a Facebook page, Twitter feed and Web site, with an online petition.
The orchestra players say they made $2.5 million in concessions two years ago when they agreed to reduce their schedule to 22 weeks from 29. Ms. Kruvand said orchestra costs amounted to 12 percent of the company's $31 million budget last year, or $3.7 million. That's $700,000 more than a year's worth of ticket revenues. Annual payments for the Koch Theater amount to about $4.5 million.
Mr. Steel has proposed a $13 million budget for next year, all that the company said it could afford. City Opera will present five operas and several concerts, about the same level of activity since the company's performances were severely cut after essentially going dark in 2008-9 while its theater was renovated.
Much of the emotion at the demonstration was directed at Mr. Steel. "We're looking at the potential death of this opera," said Tino Gagliardi, president of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians. "Why George Steel doesn't understand this is totally beyond me."
However, City Opera's problems began long before Mr. Steel's arrival, in early 2009. Those problems include years of operating with deficits, the effects of the global economic crisis, weak fund-raising coupled with unrealistic goals, the draw down of its endowment, and the turbulent and brief tenure of Mr. Steel's predecessor, Gerard Mortier. All those factors conspired to create a situation in which many feel that the New York City Opera of its glory days was gone forever. 
"They should be playing funeral music," said Alan S. Gordon, the executive director of the American Guild of Musical Artists, which represents singers, dancers and production staff members.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (94%); MUSIC (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); THEATER (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); PETITIONS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (75%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); BUDGETS (65%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%) Rudel, Julius; Steel, George; Classical Music; Opera; Organized Labor; American Guild of Musical Artists; Koch, David H, Theater; Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts; New York City Opera; New York City

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%); AMERICAN GUILD OF MUSICAL ARTISTS (84%) American Guild of Musical Artists; Koch, David H, Theater; Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts; New York City Opera

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: Rudel, Julius; Steel, George

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1150 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Brandeis Settles Suit Over Proposed Art Sale

BYLINE: RANDY KENNEDY


HIGHLIGHT: Effectively ending a two-year dispute, Brandeis University announced on Thursday that it had settled a lawsuit brought by supporters of the university's Rose Art Museum who went to court to prevent Brandeis from exploring a sale of the museum's art works in order to shore up the university's finances.

 BODY:
Effectively ending a two-year dispute, Brandeis University announced on Thursday that it had settled a lawsuit brought by supporters of the university's Rose Art Museum who went to court to prevent Brandeis from exploring a sale of the museum's art works in order to shore up the university's finances.
In January 2009, during the depths of the economic recession, Brandeis's trustees voted to "transition" the museum -- founded in 1961 and one of the most important collections in the New England, with works by de Kooning, Warhol, Lichtenstein and others -- into a teaching center and gallery, and to conduct "an orderly sale or other disposition" of its works to raise money. Later that year, Brandeis backed away from the decision, saying that no works would be sold in the immediate future and that the building would remain open as an art study center, but not as a public museum. Still, the action prompted widespread criticism, and four of the museum's benefactors, Jonathan Lee, Meryl Rose, Lois Foster and Gerald Fineberg, sued to stop any art sales. The Massachusetts attorney general's office also began an investigation of the propriety of the Brandeis plan.
In announcing the settlement that ends the lawsuit and the attorney general's investigation, the university said it has "no aim, plan, design, strategy or intention to sell any artwork donated to or purchased by" Brandeis for the museum and that the Rose museum will remain "university art museum open to the public." Fred Lawrence, who became the university's president in January, said in an interview that he would not pass judgment on the decision of his predecessor, Jehuda Reinharz, to explore a sale. "I think it was a dire economic time," he said, adding, "I'm very grateful two and a half years later to be standing here at a different time, in a different set of circumstances." Mr. Lawrence said the university will conduct a search for a "world-class" director for the museum, which will celebrate its 50th anniversary later this year, and wants to "re-launch" the Rose as a centerpiece of Brandeis's cultural and educational life. A plan announced last year to work with Sotheby's to find ways to make money by lending works from the collection remains an option, Mr. Lawrence said, "but what we're really focused on is the future of the Rose."
Mr. Lee, a former museum trustee who was among the plaintiffs in the suit, said that while the settlement does not say that the museum will categorically never sell works, "it would be awfully difficult for them to change their minds at this point."
"I feel very good about it," he said of the agreement. "In fact, I'm tickled pink. It preserves this collection."

        
Brandeis Pledges Not to Sell Art Donated by Overseers 
        
Brandeis Committee Recommends Keeping Its Art Museum Open
        
Lawsuit Filed to Halt Closure of Brandeis Art Museum
        
The Morning Feed
        
Rose Art Museum to Remain Open, for Now

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (66%) Brandeis University; Rose Art Museum; Lee, Jonathan; Lichtenstein, Roy; Reinharz, Jehuda; Warhol, Andy; Art; Colleges and Universities; Museums; Massachusetts; art & design

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (55%) Brandeis University; Rose Art Museum

PERSON: Lee, Jonathan; Lichtenstein, Roy; Reinharz, Jehuda; Warhol, Andy

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1151 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Climate Roundup

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Polar bear protection stands, British emissions curbs falter.

 BODY:
Here are a few notable reports snagged from the nonstop flow on climate science and the policy debate over greenhouse gases:
Polar Bear Protection: A federal judge upheld the decision by the George W. Bush administration to grant polar bears threatened status under the Endangered Species Act, but did not pass judgment on environmentalists' argument that the bear should get the act's more protective "endangered" designation, or the argument that the bear's status justified restricting greenhouse gases warming the climate. Other parties, including the state of Alaska, were seeking an end to the listing altogether.
Here's how the Greenwire coverage in The Times describes the context and the view of United States Judge Emmet Sullivan of the District of Columbia:Ultimately, the various parties challenging the listing from both sides constituted "nothing more than competing views about policy and science," Sullivan noted.
As a federal judge Sullivan said he "is not empowered to choose among these competing views. Instead, this court is bound to uphold the agency's determination that the polar bear is a threatened species as long as it is reasonable, regardless of whether there may be other reasonable, or even more reasonable, views." [Read the rest.]As I've said here before, it's inevitable that environmental lawyers engaged in the fight over greenhouse gases will use whatever statutes they think help their case (and whatever public relations stunts, including dressing up as a bear at climate negotiations).
I see the endangered species at as the wrong tool for the job. 
Britain's CO2 Blues: A piece by Richard Black of the BBC shows the challenges in speeding the decoupling of economic growth and emissions of carbon dioxide, even in a country that, on paper at least, has aggressive climate goals.
Scientists Fight Back: On Tuesday the board of directors of the American Association for the Advancement of Science issued a statement "vigorously opposing" harassment, legal challenges and extensive Freedom of Information Act requests and even death threats aimed at climate researchers.
As some of you know, I'm no fan of people who propose death for someone based on his environmental work or views.
Issues related to the Freedom of Information Act are tougher. Who decides which request is unjustified or excessive? A Greenpeace document request to the Smithsonian Institution disclosed the flow of more than $1 million to Willie Soon, an astrophysicist who blames the sun for climate change and is a favorite of climate naysayers. The request could have been resisted, but it wasn't.
Is there a different standard when a libertarian or industry group does the same, as with this example of a NASA request by Christopher Horner, the same lawyer whose fresh requests to the space agency helped inspire the science group's statement?
However challenging and time consuming it may be to respond to such requests, scientists and their institutions, when working under federal or state grants, shouldn't get special consideration because the workload might discourage them from doing work on contentious questions.
That doesn't mean scientists and their associations shouldn't loudly complain about it. The public should know just how much taxpayer money has to go into responding to document fishing expeditions.
Inhofe Pulls Out: Senator James M. Inhofe, the Republican of Oklahoma who is the leading defender of unfettered fossil fuel combustion in the Senate, sent his regrets for having to skip giving the keynote talk at the sixth climate conference organized by the Heartland Institute. As John Broder reported on the Green blog:"In a written statement to the group, gathering at a big Washington hotel Thursday and Friday, he thanked the attendees for their work in spreading the word. "Your efforts have gone a long way to stop the global warming alarmist agenda," he said. [Read the rest.]

        
On the Causes of Climate Deadlock
        
Republicans Get Inconvenient Replies at Climate Hearing
        
The East Anglia Climate Snatch - Not (Yet) a 'Crime'
        
Generation Hot Meets Generation Coal
        
On Edge-Pushing Statistics and Climate Basics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (91%); MARINE MAMMALS (91%); JUDGES (91%); SCIENCE POLICY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ASTROPHYSICS (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (78%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (71%); SPACE INDUSTRY (60%) Climate Change; econo; Global Warming; inhofe; limbaugh; polar bear; skeptics; Great Britain; activism; energy; environmental policy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1152 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Executive Receives 30-Year Sentence

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Lee B. Farkas, the former chairman of Taylor, Bean &#038; Whitaker, received a tough sentence, but less than the 385-year penalty sought by prosecutors.

 BODY:
8:40 p.m. | Updated 
A federal judge on Thursday sentenced Lee B. Farkas, a former mortgage industry executive accused of masterminding one of the largest bank fraud schemes in history, to 30 years in prison.
The case against Mr. Farkas, the former chairman of the mortgage firm Taylor, Bean & Whitaker, stands as the single-biggest prosecution stemming from the financial crisis. Prosecutors had asked for a sentence of as much as 385 years.
"I do not detect one bit of actual remorse," Judge Leonie M. Brinkema told Mr. Farkas in a federal courtroom in Alexandria, Va., on Thursday. "You regret getting caught."
Mr. Farkas, 58 years old, wearing a green prison jumpsuit, read from a statement that said he "strived to be a good person."
As chairman of Taylor Bean, Mr. Farkas orchestrated a plot that caused the demise of Colonial Bank and cheated investors and the government out of billions of dollars, prosecutors say.
Still, Taylor Bean was a minor financial firm based in Florida, and the crimes of Mr. Farkas began well before the crisis struck. So while the case is a defining moment for the government, its relative obscurity also highlights the continued struggle to prosecute financial fraud in the wake of the crisis.
Other than Mr. Farkas and a string of smaller mortgage fraud prosecutions, no senior financial executives have been convicted of crimes. Even now, federal prosecutors have yet to bring charges against an executive who ran a large Wall Street institution leading up to the crisis.
A 2009 case against two hedge fund managers at Bear Stearns ended in acquittals. Prosecutors also recently dropped an investigation into Angelo R. Mozilo, the former head of the subprime lending giant Countrywide Financial.
"We're going to pursue financial institutions when we believe we can prove those cases," Lanny A. Breuer, the assistant attorney general, said in an interview on Thursday. "These can be very complicated cases that take a long period of time."
The government, aiming to send a message to the financial industry, asked Judge Brinkema to impose up to the maximum 385-year sentence on Mr. Farkas. As an alternative, the government recommended a penalty of at least 50 years to ensure that he will "spend the remainder of his life in prison."
Richard L. Scheff, a former federal prosecutor who is now a criminal defense lawyer and chairman of Montgomery, McCracken, Walker & Rhoads, called the government's request "completely over the top."
"Under any stretch of the imagination, 30 years is very significant; it's tantamount to a life sentence," he said.
Mr. Farkas, who also was ordered to turn over roughly $38.5 million in gains, had asked for a 15-year sentence. His lawyers argued that his actions were intended to keep Taylor Bean and Colonial Bank in business.
His sentence, while steep, falls short of the 150 years given to Bernard L. Madoff for running a huge Ponzi scheme.
Mr. Farkas's fellow Taylor Bean executives fared far better. The firm's former chief executive and treasurer, among others, pleaded guilty and cooperated in the case against Mr. Farkas. The executives received sentences ranging from three months to eight years.
In recent letters to the court, friends and supporters of Mr. Farkas painted him as a kind-hearted humanitarian, someone who always "displayed integrity." Mr. Farkas once paid a stranger's medical bills, often donated to the local Salvation Army's Christmas fund-raiser and even offered his private jet to take a mother and her baby to New York for cancer treatment, they said.
Mr. Farkas took the stand during the trial to defend this reputation and deny any wrongdoing.
But a federal jury in Virginia was unmoved. In April, after a 10-day trial and little more than a day of deliberations, the jurors found Mr. Farkas guilty on 14 counts of securities, bank and wire fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud.
Mr. Farkas's $2.9 billion scheme began in 2002, prosecutors say, when Taylor Bean was facing mounting losses. To hide the losses, Taylor Bean executives secretly overdrew the firm's accounts with Colonial Bank. The lender, aiming to cover up the overdrafts, sold Colonial about $1.5 billion in "worthless" and "fake" mortgages. The government, in turn, guaranteed the bogus loans.
When Colonial started to struggle, Mr. Farkas helped convince the bank to apply for more than $550 million in taxpayer bailout funds. The Treasury Department initially approved the rescue loan, but ultimately withdrew the offer.
Colonial filed for bankruptcy in August 2009, making it the sixth-largest bank failure in history.
Mr. Farkas, meanwhile, diverted more than $40 million from Taylor Bean and Colonial to "finance his lifestyle," prosecutors said. He used the money, according to the government, to buy a private jet, vacation homes and a collection of vintage cars.
"He did this to live like a king, and now justice has come to bear," Mr. Breuer said.

        
Long Sentences Send a Message Few May Hear
        
Tough Justice Persists in White-Collar Crime Cases

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (94%); SENTENCING (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); JUDGES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ACQUITTAL (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Bernard L. Madoff; Financial Crisis; Justice Department; Lee B. Farkas; Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage; Farkas, Lee B; Banking and Financial Institutions; Frauds and Swindling; Mortgages; Sentences (Criminal); Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: MONTGOMERY MCCRACKEN WALKER & RHOADS LLP (62%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (62%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: ANGELO R MOZILO (58%); BERNARD MADOFF (57%) Farkas, Lee B

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1153 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Christine Lagarde and the Demand for Dollars

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: The likely policies of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund may push a lot of overseas investment into the dollar, raising the possibilities that Americans will continue to overborrow, an economist writes.

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, the former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, is the co-author of "13 Bankers."
After receiving support from the United States at the critical moment, Christine Lagarde was named Tuesday as the next managing director of the International Monetary Fund. In campaigning for the job, Ms. Lagarde, France's finance minister, made various promises to emerging markets with regard to improving their relationships with the I.M.F. But such promises count for little.
The main impact of her appointment will be to encourage countries like South Korea, Brazil, India and Russia to back away from the I.M.F. and to further "self-insure" by accumulating larger stockpiles of foreign-exchange reserves -- the strategy that has been followed by China for most of the last decade.
From an individual country's perspective, having large amounts of dollar reserves held by your central bank or in a sovereign wealth fund makes a great deal of sense - a rainy day fund in a global economy prone to serious financial floods. 
From the perspective of the global economy, such actions represent a major risk going forward, because they will further push down interest rates in the United States, feed a renewed buildup in private-sector dollar-denominated debt and make it even harder to get policy makers focused on a genuine fix to our long-term budget problems.Ms. Lagarde is sincere and will no doubt try to be friendly to her supporters, perhaps, for example, by creating a senior management-level job at the I.M.F. and making sure it goes to China or another emerging market. But what the emerging markets really want is more "quota" (the term used for share ownership and therefore votes at the I.M.F.), as well as more seats on the fund's executive board. 
These are not within Ms. Lagarde's purview to grant. Rather the European Union, at the highest political level, would have to agree to give up some of its votes and reduce its voice. The E.U. is indeed overrepresented at the I.M.F., both in terms of shares and -- most egregiously -- with 8 or so seats on a board of 24 members (the exact number depends on how you count some seats shared by Europeans and non-Europeans). 
And the E.U. has proved to itself and everyone else that it both cares a great deal about who controls the I.M.F. and that it can continue to assert this control.
To be fair, the control this time was partly about organizing early to provide unanimous support for Ms. Lagarde - amid an understandable desire to appoint a woman, given the recent resignation of her predecessor, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, amid pending charges of sexual assault. 
But the E.U.'s dominance also reflects disorganization among the emerging markets. These countries, though often grouped in a category, do not really see themselves as having convergent interests on many issues, either now or in the near future.
If you look at the current circumstances from the perspective of countries like South Korea, India, South Africa, Brazil, or Russia, what conclusion would you draw?
Emerging markets cannot rely on the I.M.F. to provide help on generous terms during a crisis - such support looks as if it is available to European countries but no others. As a result, an appropriately cautious strategy is to hold a great deal of reserves; the only form of unconditional "foreign" support in a serious financial crisis comes from your own hard currency, perhaps in the form of United States Treasuries that can easily be sold in a liquid market.
What else constitutes appealing foreign exchange reserves in today's world? The euro has some use, but is limited as long as a serious sovereign debt crisis looms -- very few euro-zone governments look to be risk-free. The Swiss franc continues to do well, but this is a relatively small volume of available assets. The British pound and the Japanese yen have lost a lot of their traditional allure as reserve currencies.
This leaves the dollar, which, despite all the obvious problems in the United States, is still the world's No. 1 reserve currency. Emerging markets are likely to follow increasingly in the footsteps of China -- trying to run current-account surpluses, intervening to prevent their currencies from appreciating by selling local currency and buying dollars and investing the proceeds in dollar assets.
If our fiscal and financial house were in order, the resulting inflow of foreign capital would constitute a bonanza, allowing us to invest productively while paying low interest rates. But given the way our financial system operates and the dysfunctional nature of our budget politics, the availability of this capital will just encourage us further to overborrow, both in the private sector and in the public sector.

        
Does the U.S. Really Have a Fiscal Crisis?
        
Will Ireland Default? Ask Belgium
        
It's Not About Greece Anymore
        
The Next Global Problem: Portugal
        
Meanwhile, in the Rest of the World

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (60%); SEX OFFENSES (60%); INTEREST RATES (51%) budget deficit; Daily Economist; emerging markets; European Union; federal budget; foreign exchange; International Monetary Fund; Simon Johnson; Lagarde, Christine; Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; US Dollar (Currency)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%) International Monetary Fund

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (92%); DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (58%) Lagarde, Christine

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (92%); BRAZIL (79%); INDIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1154 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Host 'Twitter Town Hall'

BYLINE: JENNIFER PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama will answer questions about jobs and the economy during a Twitter Town Hall next week.

 BODY:
2:00 p.m. | Updated President Obama will welcome some of his Twitter followers to the White House next week for a Twitter Town Hall, where he will answer questions about jobs and the economy that people across the country can begin posting today, using the hashtag, #askobama.
Jack Dorsey, Twitter's co-founder and executive chairman who recently returned to the company, will be the moderator of the event, to be held Wednesday afternoon in the East Room. He will pose the questions to Mr. Obama who will answer them for about an hour in front of two gigantic screens that will display the conversation on Twitter in real time.
It will be streamed live at http://askobama.twitter.com and http://wh.gov/live.
Twitter will select the questions, using curation tools and a group of Twitter users to help identify the most popular questions raised both before and during the event. Twitter will be relying on its own search and curation features as well as a company called Mass Relevance to help find questions and topics that are most frequently mentioned.Macon Phillips, special assistant to the president and director of digital strategy, said that the event was an opportunity for the Mr. Obama to use the Twitter platform to hear directly from people outside of Washington.
"Twitter offers a compelling way to not only get information out but also to understand what people have to say about an issue," he said. "That is why we are doubling down on our online engagement efforts."
Earlier this year, Mr. Obama visited Facebook's headquarters in California and fielded questions from Marc Zuckerberg, the chief executive officer. The event was live streamed and the questions and answers were displayed on Facebook's platform.
Mr. Phillips said that there has been a new emphasis on using social media platforms throughout the federal government to help bolster customer service efforts as well as deliver, listen and collect information.
"It is a tool that helps people do their jobs," Mr. Phillips said. "All of the people who have official White House accounts would tell you that it is a really helpful way to engage with people and bring in new ideas and be aware of new issues that they otherwise might have missed."
A few weeks ago, the White House communications office assigned Jesse C. Lee, who formerly worked on Mr. Phillips team, to a new full-time role engaging and answering questions from Twitter users.
Earlier this month, members of Mr. Obama's campaign team announced that he would be posting his own tweets on the @barackobama Twitter account from time to time, signing them, BO. With more than eight million followers, that account is used primarily for his re-election efforts while the @whitehouse account is used for administration news and updates.
Adam Sharp, Twitter's manager of government and political partnerships, said that the curators chosen by Twitter to help select the questions would be a politically and geographically diverse group. He said the curators would ask the people in their communities to highlight what they think are the most important questions for the president to address.
Curators will also be reposting questions and posting their own.
"We will have highly-engaged Twitter users from around the country to provide that geographic diversity to help identify good questions, " he said. "This helps us make sure that we are addressing the concerns that the Twitter universe cares about. "
To participate, Twitter users need to include the hashtag #askObama when posting their question. All questions with the hashtag will be included in the selection process. If Web users do not yet have a Twitter account, they can visit http://askobama.twitter.com to sign up and join the discussion.
For those @WhiteHouse followers who want to be considered to attend the Tweetup next week, they can sign up online at http://WhiteHouse.gov/Tweetup, according to Kori Schulman, deputy director of digital content, Office of Digital Strategy.
Ms. Schulman, who is the person behind the @whitehouse account, said that the goal was to have more events at the White House so that posters can engage more with senior administration officials and with each other.

        
Obama's Sunday Address Draws 56.5 Million Viewers
        
Obama to Give '60 Minutes' Details on Bin Laden
        
Japanese Tech Execs Share 'Save Japan' Strategies at SXSW
        
After Quake and Tsunami, Japanese Citizens Flock to Social Networks for Information
        
Twitter Feed Evolves Into a News Wire About Egypt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); STREAMING MEDIA (74%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (73%) President Obama; Twitter; Obama, Barack; Social Networking (Internet); New Media

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (85%); FACEBOOK INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Twitter

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1155 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Challenge

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington.

 BODY:
In Today's Times
President Obama issued a direct challenge to Republican lawmakers on Wednesday, telling them they had to accept tax increases on the wealthy as part of a deal to raise the debt ceiling, Mark Landler writes. While the president expressed hope for a budget deal before the government's borrowing authority expires in early August, he scolded Republicans for putting off hard decisions until the 11th hour - saying that his daughters did not procrastinate that way with their schoolwork. Judging by the response of Speaker John A. Boehner, Republicans were unmoved. Mr. Obama stopped just short of endorsing same-sex marriage on Wednesday, Sheryl Gay Stolberg writes. After months of saying that his views on the subject were "evolving," the president said the passage of New York's same-sex marriage law indicated that the country was moving toward "greater equality." But to the dismay of his gay supporters, he did not indicate whether his personal evolution was complete. A federal appeals court in Cincinnati has upheld Mr. Obama's health care law against one of several legal challenges, Kevin Sack reports. A three-judge panel ruled that the Constitution allows Congress to require individuals to buy insurance. Opinions are expected soon from panels in the Fourth Circuit in Richmond, Va., and the 11th Circuit in Atlanta, where the judges heard arguments in similar cases. Confirming presidential appointees has become so cumbersome and partisan that the Senate wants to do less of it, Carl Hulse writes. In a rare decision to relinquish its own power, the Senate voted Wednesday to make 170 executive branch appointments that are not involved with policy making exempt from Senate confirmation. Lawmakers also approved a proposal to expedite consideration of appointees to about 250 positions on part-time boards and commissions, slicing the overall number of posts that need confirmation to 1,000 from about 1,400.
Around the Web
The Washington Post took note of Mr. Obama's "combative" new tone with Republicans, writing that he sought to "reassert a commanding presence on the economic and foreign policy issues that are defining his presidency - and could determine whether he wins re-election."Politico reports how the comedian Stephen Colbert's decision to create an political action committee may backfire for him and hurt efforts to tighten campaign finance rules. Mr. Colbert is scheduled to appear at 10 a.m. before the Federal Election Commission to discuss his request to create the Colbert Super PAC to highlight and parody the growing influence of corporate money in elections.
Happening Around Washington
President Obama will deliver remarks at a farewell ceremony for the secretary of defense, Robert M. Gates, at the Pentagon. Later, he travels to Philadelphia to attend two Democratic fund-raisers.Among the economic data expected this morning are the Labor Departments' report on weekly jobless claims (8:30 a.m.) and Freddie Mac's weekly mortgage rates (10 a.m.).The Senate banking committee holds a hearing at 10 focused on deficit reduction. Witnesses include Peter R. Orszag, Mr. Obama's former budget director and a vice chairman of Citibank's global banking division, and Jim Nussle, former President George W. Bush's last budget director and a former Iowa congressman.The United States Sentencing Commission will vote on whether to make retroactive the new sentencing guidelines for crack cocaine-related offenses. If guidelines in the 2010 law are applied retroactively, inmates sentenced before the law was passed could apply for for sentence reductions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (87%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); MARRIAGE LAW (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); CAUCUSES (76%); GAYS & LESBIANS (75%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); APPROVALS (72%); JUDGES (72%); MARRIAGE (70%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (62%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (52%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) The Caucus

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (52%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); STEPHEN COLBERT (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1156 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Obama Shows Emotion, With Political Consequences

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Will President Obama's pointed remarks about his Republican adversaries help jump-start stalled debt negotiations or push the two sides further apart?

 BODY:
The rap on President Obama is that he's too professorial, too cool, too prone to dissecting a problem logically and then attempting to explain it to the public.
If that's the case, then it wasn't Mr. Obama who stood in front of the news media on Wednesday.
From the moment he started his prepared remarks in the East Room, it was clear that the president was frustrated with his Republican adversaries, who have spent the last several weeks accusing him of failing to lead. House Speaker John A. Boehner did it again moments after the news conference, saying the president "has been AWOL."
White House officials say that such accusations have not gotten under the president's skin. But in the more than hour-long news conference, Mr. Obama made clear that he views the upcoming high-stakes negotiations over the nation's debt as a test for the Republicans of the very leadership skills they say he lacks.
Mr. Obama did not lay down a "red line" beyond which he would refuse to negotiate. But he repeatedly dared Congressional Republicans to side with oil companies, hedge fund managers and corporate jet owners against the interests of the elderly, schoolchildren and the middle class. His tone throughout was defiant.
The question is whether Mr. Obama's pointed remarks about his Congressional adversaries will help jump-start the stalled debt negotiations, or will have the effect of backing each side further into a corner even as the Aug. 2 deadline for raising the nation's borrowing capacity nears.
And it remains to be seen whether Mr. Obama, who faces a re-election battle next year, is beginning a concerted effort to push back against the Republican charges that he has failed to lead the country out of its economic mess. That charge, more than anything else, has animated the campaigns of his potential 2012 adversaries.
"He conveyed an appropriate sense of urgency," David Axelrod, one of the president's top political advisers, said in an interview. "It's time to bear down and get this done."
Mr. Axelrod said the purpose of the news conference was not to make personal accusations about Mr. Boehner or other legislative leaders. He said the president was hoping to "put the debate into perspective" for lawmakers and the public. But, Mr. Axelrod conceded, "his language was very direct."
Indeed it was.
Showing a rarely seen passion, the president called out his rivals for their comments about him, saying they are "just not on the level" and essentially accusing them of being crybabies who walk away from the discussions when the debate gets tough.
"We're working through process, and when they decide they're not happy with the fact that at some point you've got to make a choice, they just all step back and say, well, you know, the president needs to get this done," Mr. Obama told reporters. "They need to do their job."
Mr. Obama said he was "amused" by Republican comments that he needs to show more leadership. But his remarks suggested that he was not amused at all.
"Let me tell you something," he said, describing meetings with lawmakers and his decision to put Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in charge of negotiations. "I've met with the leaders multiple times. At a certain point, they need to do their job."
Mr. Obama's more aggressive, confrontational tone will probably be welcomed by many in the president's party who have been eager for him to fight for the causes they believe in.
Mr. Obama did not go far enough for some liberals, who said after the news conference that they had wanted him to make an absolute statement on the need for tax increases in any debt deal. But the populist message from Mr. Obama during the news conference suggests that the president is preparing for battle over that issue.
With his comments, Mr. Obama sought to make it politically uncomfortable for members of Congress to leave Washington on one of their frequent summertime breaks while the debt discussions remain unresolved. He even made a vague threat that "we are going to start having to cancel things" unless a deal is reached.
"They're in one week, they're out one week," Mr. Obama said, his voice rising a bit. "And then they're saying, 'Obama has got to step in.' You need to be here. I've been here. I've been doing Afghanistan and Bin Laden and the Greek crisis. You stay here. Let's get it done."
He paused before adding: "All right. I think you know my feelings about that."
But perhaps the most interesting moment - and, potentially, the one that could be taken personally by his adversaries - was when Mr. Obama compared Republican lawmakers to his 10- and 13-year-old daughters, and not favorably.
His girls, he said, manage to do their homework a day ahead of time. "It is impressive," he said. "They don't wait until the night before. They're not pulling all-nighters."
Asked what the president was trying to say by telling the story of his two daughters, Mr. Axelrod surmised that perhaps Mr. Obama was just expressing pride in his own parenting skills.
Or, he added, maybe "the point he was making is that this is not something that should be left to the last minute."

        
Obama Speech Defends Liberal Principles
        
Two Senators Seek Middle Ground on Debt
        
Obama Seeks to Reshape Debate Over Debt 
        
Republicans Bet Public Will Reward Them for Proposing Cuts
        
The Case for Obama Campaigning as a Foreign Policy President

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); CHILDREN (51%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%) 2008; barack obama; CONSERVATIVES; debt; deficit; Democrats; economy; Republicans; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Republican Party; Congress; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); DAVID AXELROD (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (55%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1157 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: Romney Video Attacks Obama on Stimulus, Economy

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney visits a manufacturing plant that the economic stimulus plan did not save.

 BODY:
Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, continues his assault on President Obama's economic record on Thursday by visiting a shuttered metalworks plant in Allentown, Pennsylvania.
The plant is unique because it's one that Mr. Obama visited in 2009, holding it up as one of those struggling places that would get a boost from the $787 billion stimulus legislation that the president pushed through Congress.
In fact, a year later, the plant closed, laying off the very workers Mr. Obama had addressed.
In a web video released this morning, Mr. Romney seeks to draw attention to that irony. And later in the day, he plans to hold a news conference at the entrance to the closed plant.
The video shows Mr. Obama touting the metalworks and the stimulus, followed by a local TV anchor noting the closure of the plant. The screen on the video shows: "Over 100,000 Pennsylvania Jobs Lost Since President Obama Took Office."
In a statement after Mr. Romney's web video was released, Brad Woodhouse, a spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, criticized Mr. Romney's economic ideas.
"For someone who holds himself out to know a thing or two about the economy - Mitt Romney hasn't learned anything since the financial collapse of 2008," Mr. Woodhouse said. "He'd simply return to the same failed policies that nearly wrecked our economy and had our nation shedding nearly 800,000 jobs a month."

        
Democrats' New Tactic: Praising 2012 Republicans
        
Obama Heads to Kokomo to Tout Auto Bailout and Stimulus
        
Dueling Stimulus Ads on Obama's Jobs Plans
        
White House Pleased By Unemployment Dip
        
Obama, Biden Talk About Unemployment News

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (75%); INTERNET VIDEO (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%) barack obama; economy; mitt romney; stimulus; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; United States Economy; Democratic National Committee; Pennsylvania; Elections; The 44th President; The White House

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%) Democratic National Committee

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (94%); JOE BIDEN (58%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1158 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Romney Says Closed Steel Plant Symbolizes Obama's Failures

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney, visiting a closed Pennsylvania steel plant that President Obama visited in 2009, called the president's handling of the economy a failure.

 BODY:
ALLENTOWN, Penn. - Standing before the locked gate of a steel plant that President Obama had once visited to promote his economic stimulus plan, Mitt Romney pointed out weeds and boarded-up windows on Friday and called the president's handling of the economy a failure.
He did so just a day after the president used a rare White House press conference to pressure Congressional Republicans to come to the table and compromise to solve the federal deficit, while asking voters to be patient about the slow recovery and high jobless rate.
Mr. Romney seized on the issue, telling reporters: "The plant here had been open 100 years. It survived the Great Depression. It couldn't survive the Obama economy.''
"Now the president says, 'Just give me more time, and it could have been worse,''' Mr. Romney continued. "It couldn't have been worse for the people who worked at this plant. For them this is as bad as it gets.''
Mr. Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts who leads in early polls for the Republican nomination, maintained his campaign strategy of directing criticism at Mr. Obama as though he were already the nominee, even though the general election is more than a year away. During the 15 minutes he spoke and took reporters' questions, he never mentioned any of his Republican challengers. Rather than visiting a crucial early primary state, he was making his first campaign trip to Pennsylvania, a state that usually votes Democratic in presidential elections -- as if his anointment to run against Mr. Obama were all but inevitable.
The setting was the Allentown Metal Works, a plant that closed on Jan. 15 after struggling for years. Mr. Obama had toured the plant in December 2009 as part of a swing through Pennsylvania's Rust Belt to promote the gradual positive effect of the $787 billion stimulus bill he had pushed through Congress. He said at the time that the stimulus created or saved as many as 1.6 million jobs and had turned around the economy and gotten it slowly growing.
But Mr. Romney insisted that the stimulus and other measures had failed. "If people want change and want not this as a symbol of hope but real work and a growing economy as a symbol of hope, then we're going to have change in Washington and change in the White House.''
Earlier in the day, his campaign posted a Web video using the shuttered steel plant to attack the president. In response, Brad Woodhouse, a spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, said in a statement that Mr. Romney would "simply return to the same failed policies that nearly wrecked our economy and had our nation shedding nearly 800,000 jobs a month."
Asked to cite specific actions he would take to improve the economy if he were president, Mr. Romney criticized the president for leaving Washington on Thursday to appear in Philadelphia at a fund-raising event for his re-election. He did not mention that he, too, had a pair of fund-raisers scheduled in the area.
One person who does not fault the president for the plant's failure is John Hydro, the last full-time employee, who works as a watchman as machinery from the former fabrication shops is disassembled to be sold off. "Cheap foreign labor killed us, basically,'' said Mr. Hydro, 66, who worked here 21 years maintaining the machinery. "You can't blame it on the president. Obama was in office at the time.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CAUCUSES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); GOVERNORS (67%); INTERNET VIDEO (50%) The Caucus

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (89%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011



1159 of 1159 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2011

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Athens on the Hudson

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Day: The city has a budget in time for the start of the 2012 fiscal year, but it is hard to see how it qualifies as a grand political victory for Mayor Bloomberg. Also, what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs.

 BODY:
Baghdad on the Hudson, O. Henry called New York. This week, Athens on the Hudson was more like it.
 On Wednesday, as the Greek Parliament was approving a package of austerity measures essential to stave off default, the City Council voted to accept some belt-tightening of its own: a budget deal with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg that is bound to make life rougher for more than a few New Yorkers. 
 Granted, the city is in much better financial shape than Greece is. Nor does the new municipal budget contain the one-two punch of teacher layoffs and firehouse closings that Mr. Bloomberg had threatened for months. But it's no walk in the park, either. 
About 2,600 retiring teachers will not be replaced, so classroom sizes will grow, and about 1,000 workers are supposed to be let go in departments responsible for transportation, parks and children's well-being.
The assumption among politicians always is that New Yorkers will breathe sighs of relief as long as mass firings do not touch the holy trinity of the municipal work force: police officers, firefighters and teachers. But wait till some unhinged mother - or, more typically, her vicious live-in boyfriend - takes the life of a helpless 4-year-old. Any loss of caseworkers in the Administration for Children's Services won't look so brilliant then.
As in Athens, protesters here took to the streets to denounce the budget. In this regard, too, the situation was not nearly as dire as in Greece, where the police and demonstrators fought with tear gas and rocks. Still, 13 people were arrested Tuesday night when they occupied the lobby of a building opposite City Hall where council members have offices. The nature of the outrage was not much different from that in Athens; protesters said the economic pain fell hardest on the vulnerable, with the wealthy left unscathed.
 But at least the city had a budget, as required by law, in time for the start of the 2012 fiscal year on Friday.
 It is hard to see, though, how this qualifies as a grand political victory for the mayor. He has been blasted in some quarters as virtually a con man for his repeated threats to get rid of teachers and firehouses.
"They were never going to do that," said City Councilman Charles Barron, a former Black Panther, who was the lone lawmaker to vote against the budget on Wednesday. O.K., Mr. Barron is the Council's resident radical, and never has a good thing to say about Mr. Bloomberg. But the archly conservative New York Post made much the same point in an editorial on Monday that ran under the headline "Bloomberg's Big Bluff." It began: "Just call him Mayor Blowhard." 
The Post's editorialists and Charles Barron find themselves in the same camp about as often as do Newt Gingrich and Noam Chomsky. 
Others refused to give the mayor much credit for his signature claim to City Hall: fiscal responsibility. Since he took office in 2002, the budget has grown by 65 percent, to $66 billion from $40 billion. Had it grown at the rate of inflation, it would be about $50 billion today.
Greg David, a columnist for Crain's New York, acknowledged this week that some costs, like Medicaid and pensions, were beyond Mr. Bloomberg's control. Nonetheless, Mr. David wrote, with no detectable note of approval, "the cost of city government has grown enormously on his watch." 
 It continues to be a rocky third term for the mayor, what with the December blizzard, the CityTime scandal, the Cathleen P. Black debacle and now harsh criticism from a newspaper like The Post, which less than three years ago pleaded with him to seek a third term because, it said, only he could save us from fiscal ruin. 
On the positive side, Mr. Bloomberg can peer calmly across the waters, knowing that whatever his own headaches may be, Prime Minister George A. Papandreou of Greece has it worse, a lot worse.
For more local news from The Times, including what prosecutors say was a Brooklyn woman's nine-year ordeal of rape and forced prostitution, a biography of Dominique Strauss-Kahn that throws new, if ambiguous light on his past behavior, the Brooklyn Academy of Music's programming alliance with the new Atlantic Yards arena, and a dockfront restaurant in Red Hook that caters to Filipino cruise-ship workers, see the N.Y./Region section.
Here's what City Room is reading in other papers and blogs this morning.
The hostage-taking liquor-store robbers who engaged the police in a four-hour standoff in Brooklyn shot at (but missed) a dog and helped themselves to some Jack Daniel's before surrendering, the authorities said. [Daily News]
In one of many ongoing battles over space between a charter school and a traditional public school, the charter, Coney Island Prep, won the right to move into Intermediate School 303's building. [Daily News, article not online yet]
The father of a Bronx 19-year-old killed in a parking-lot brawl hours after his high-school graduation reportedly started the fracas because he thought parking-lot attendants had stolen his cologne. [New York Post]
Anthony D. Weiner's wife, Huma Abedin, is taking a leave of absence from her job at the State Department while the former congressman goes off to rehab. [New York Post] 
A judge ruled that a gay librarian at Stuyvesant High School was discriminated against when he was suspended for touching students' backs and whispering in a student's ear. [New York Post]
One residential tenant in the doomed building that houses the Mars Bar looks back at 35 years of changes in the East Village. [Local East Village]
An artist in Brooklyn Heights paints the auras of pizza. [Brooklyn Daily Eagle]
A town clerk upstate says she will refuse to sign gay-marriage licenses. [Daily Politics]

        
Economic Doldrums Look Persistent, Bloomberg Says
        
In 'Bloombergville,' Budget Protesters Sleep In
        
Protesters Cross Bridge to Oppose Plan to Shut Firehouses
        
Joking, to a Point, About a Property Tax Cap
        
Quinn Criticizes Bloomberg Plan to Cut Spending

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (95%); CITIES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MAYORS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (77%); LOBBYING (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); CLOSINGS (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (73%); CHILD WELFARE (73%); ARRESTS (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%) City Council; Michael Bloomberg; Michael R. Bloomberg; New York City budget; Bloomberg, Michael R; Budgets and Budgeting; Politics and Government; City Council (NYC); New York City; City Hall; Government & Politics; The Day

ORGANIZATION: City Council (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ATHENS, GREECE (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); GREECE (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2011

 
