

601 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Champagne Makers Promise Plenty to Cry Into on Dec. 31

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: AY, France

 BODY:
Churchill, who knew a thing or two about fine living, used to say of his favorite Champagne, "In victory I deserve it, and in defeat, I need it." This New Year's Eve, partygoers apparently have decided that when it comes to French Champagne they, too, have to have it.
Sales of French Champagne have been setting records for months. The fact that the American economy is booming, along with a taste for luxury goods, is one reason. So is the notion of ringing in the millennium with a flute full of the real stuff. 
 Wine merchants in the United States say French Champagne is being rationed to them month by month. Advertisements from Champagne makers are warning people to prepare for their parties by laying in a supply early. Food and wine writers have been debating the possibility of a shortage for more than a year.
But here in the heart of the Champagne-making region of France, talk of a shortage is laughed off as nonsense. Why would any smart winemaker mismanage the millennium?
"There are a few makers who don't have any Champagne left," said Rene Goutorbe, who took a moment off from directing tractors to his wine presses as the 1999 harvest arrives here. "But they're the same ones who didn't have any left last year at this time, and they won't have any next year, either."
"They probably have the same problem with money," Mr. Goutorbe added, laughing.
Several years ago, the Champagne houses and the growers of the three grapes essential for the genuine bubbly -- pinot noir, pinot chardonnay and pinot meunier -- agreed to produce enough grapes to make an average of 270 million bottles of Champagne a year for the rest of the 1990's, about 50 million bottles more than they had been selling in the recession years early in the decade.
The producers also agreed to draw down the equivalent of 132 million bottles of reserve wine, normally saved for years with a poor harvest, and use it to put more Champagne on the market in 1999 than ever before.
The result is that there will be plenty of nonvintage wine to go around. Champagne sales this year will most likely far surpass 300 million bottles and set a record, up to 15 percent more than last year's figures, according to executives at Champagne Laurent-Perrier.
"All our expectations have been surpassed," said Christian Pol-Roger, whose Champagne Pol Roger company in Epernay is one of the few French houses in private hands. "There'll be enough for everybody. All that saying, 'Buy now or there won't be anymore,' does is stimulate even more sales."
Champagne, like so much in France, is a subtle and delicate business, with as many layers of complexity as the sparkling wines that take their name from the eastern French region. "What we sell is tears of happiness," Mr. Pol-Roger said down in his cool brick-walled caves, some lined with bottles of his Sir Winston Churchill vintage wine that will stay here for years. "They have to go to university, study at Oxford and get a good education before they go out into the world," he joked.
But he and other Champagne makers do not like to talk about the number of bottles they produce, any more than people of refined manners like to talk about how much money they make. Any suggestion of a glut on the market might cheapen the luxury image, and besides, makers and growers are eager to keep prices stable. They suffered a sharp decline in sales when high prices in the early 1990's collided with an economic recession in Europe and the United States after the Persian Gulf war.
As 2000 approaches, Champagne companies seem to be trying to encourage people to celebrate with serenity -- preferably with Champagne, which is made only here, not the sparkling wines made in Italy, Spain, Germany and the United States, where real Champagne still accounts for only 10 percent of the sparkling wine market.
Early this month, Veuve Clicquot invited more than 600 customers and celebrities, including descendants of Louis XIV, to his Chateau de Versailles, rented by the company for the evening. Ladies in evening gowns and gentlemen in tuxedos sipped Veuve Clicquot La Grande Dame 1990 in the garden before going into the Orangerie to eat their way through lobster ravioli, veal and roast figs, to Champagne accompaniment highlighted by a 1979 La Grande Dame.
The great lady's 19th century namesake, the widow Clicquot, invented the "riddling tables" that are still used to tilt Champagne bottles upside down as they approach the end of the aging process, so that the yeast sediment can collect around the cork to be popped out before the bottles are recorked and sold.
Mireille Guiliano, president of the American subsidiary Clicquot, Inc., said the company would not have thought of putting on such a show if there was any prospect of running out of product to sell before New Year's Eve.
But Veuve Clicquot, like other makers, rationed some big wholesale distributors this year, doling out consignments month by month a little at a time rather than all at once in January and February.
For American retail liquor store owners like Michael A. Correra in Brooklyn, this meant that his distributor, Paramount, told him in early September that it could not supply him with any more Veuve Clicquot yellow-label nonvintage Champagne until October, Mr. Correra said.
He still had plenty on the shelves, at $31.99 a bottle, early this month, but he said: "With Champagne, you can buy it one week, and then the distributor is out another week. I don't know if people are squirreling it away or what, but there's 60 percent more demand this year and only 20 percent more supply."
Mrs. Guiliano said: "You can't just turn the faucet on, of course. There are customers who would like to have three times as much as they will get, but I'm persuaded that if you go to the stores on Dec. 30 you'll still find a wide choice available."
In advertising campaigns earlier this year, Moet & Chandon, the biggest Champagne seller in America and, like Veuve Clicquot and many other houses, owned by the LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton conglomerate, was urging customers to "prepare." But, as Philippe Pascal, president of Champagne Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin in Reims, said, "We foresaw the increased demand, and we said let's get ready, because we wanted to avoid too much tension with prices."
French Government regulations and longstanding cooperative arrangements in the Champagne trade provide ways of controlling both quantity and quality that came into play to insure adequate supplies for the millennium.
Nonvintage Champagne is produced by blending wines made from pinot noir, pinot chardonnay and pinot meunier grapes that come from many different vineyards. In good years, around 20 percent of this still wine is held in reserve, "blocked" in bottles or vats to be mixed with wine from poor harvest years, to even out the hills and valleys of the production cycle.
But in the years leading up to 1996, according to Jacques Peters, Veuve Clicquot's cellar master, growers agreed with the Champagne houses to produce enough grapes to increase production to an average of 270 million bottles each year until 2000. At the same time, they agreed to draw down the equivalent of up to 132 million bottles of wine built up in reserve stores. This would add to the mix in the "assemblage," as the process is called in French, that would make the nonvintage Champagne that went on sale this year.
Next year, after all the millennium parties, they expect demand to fall again and plan to build up their reserve supplies over a few years.
"This year's 1999 vintage Champagne should be a great one, unless we get hail or something before the harvest is over," Mr. Peters said, "but it won't be ready to drink until 2006 or 2007." Vintage Champagnes are made only from grapes from the harvest of the vintage year, which is on the label, and usually also have a special name, like La Grande Dame or Sir Winston Churchill.
Distributors in the United States still have special bottles of the acclaimed 1988 and 1990 vintages of many houses, and most makers keep a few hundred or even a thousand bottles of other great years like 1978 and 1983 around for special occasions. These wines go for premium prices; a magnum of 1988 Dom Perignon goes for about $250 this year in New York City, for example.
As for such wines, Frederic Panaiotis, another vintner with Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin, advised: "If you must have a specific vintage from a particular year, don't wait until November to buy it. I personally wouldn't wait until Dec. 24, either."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The harvest at Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin near Reims. Some distributors were rationed, but an official still promised "a wide choice" in December. (Alain Julien for The New York Times)(pg. 20)
 
Map of France: Champagne makers in Ay "foresaw the increased demand." (pg. 20)
 
Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: A Lot of Bubbly"
Champagne growers have sent more Champagne into the market, anticipating the demand of milennium celebrations. The graph shows the shipments of champagne in the amount of bottles from 1970-1999. (Source: Champagne Trade Associates)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LPE (PAR) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); 

COMPANY: POL-ROGER & CIE SA (58%); LAURENT-PERRIER SA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CHAMPAGNE; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR) WINERIES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINE (90%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (89%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (75%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (73%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



602 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1834 words

HEADLINE: Lost Chances to Avert a Disaster;
Competing Interests Stalled New Jersey Flood Project

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

DATELINE: BOUND BROOK, N.J., Sept. 22

 BODY:
Ever since six men died in a flash flood in 1973, the Army Corps of Engineers has been planning a vast construction project to tame Green Brook and other flood-prone streams around this borough and a dozen nearby communities.
But work has been delayed over and over -- by Federal budget cuts, by drastic changes demanded by Congress, by the corps's cumbersome bureaucracy, by environmental questions, and by political tussles over how to apportion the costs and benefits of the $330 million flood-control plan. 
 And now, as thousands of residents pick through the ruins of precisely the kind of flooding the corps set out to prevent a quarter-century ago, officials are left to contemplate both a meteorological nightmare and a bureaucratic one.
"If we had better foresight, that project could've been done now and Bound Brook wouldn't have been flooded," said Clark Gilman, 60, the chief of flood-plain management for the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, who has been working on the plan for 25 of the 30 years he has held the position. "It's real sad. Nero fiddled and now Rome's burned."
Corps officials who assessed the damage this week found that flooding from Tropical Storm Floyd was two feet higher than even the theorized catastrophe that they had used as a worst-case scenario. What had been a computer-generated line on their maps was now drawn on the town's streets and buildings in rainbow stains of oil and brown smudges of sewage and mud.
And as Bound Brook, Green Brook Township, Middlesex and other communities in the low plains of northern New Jersey continued to tally losses from the floods, debate intensified over the long-planned, but never-executed Green Brook Flood Control Project.
It was only out of respect for the two people who died when the Raritan River and Green Brook combined to immerse this place that some officials refrained from saying "I told you so." But several came close.
William F. Slezak, the civil works chief in the corps's regional headquarters in Manhattan, said that despite the epic dimensions of this deluge, it would have been largely held back by the planned network of levees, channels and flood walls. The corps, saddled with a reputation for excessive building and wasteful spending, this time appeared to have the right idea. The plan called for levees with an extra three feet of height, just in case.
"It just tears your heart out, the fact that we just weren't able to provide the protection in time," Mr. Slezak said.
The long, strange history of the Green Brook Flood Control Project is a study in the tortuous course that must be run by complicated engineering projects, particularly when they span 3 counties and 13 municipalities, as this one does.
Over two decades, competing political interests at the downstream and upstream ends of Green Brook pressed different representatives in Congress either to drop aspects of the plan or to change its focus, each time causing delays. Communities with fewer flooding problems questioned whether they should have to share costs with those, like Bound Brook, that faced the biggest risks.
The debate played out year after year in The Courier News of Bridgewater and other local newspapers. Even though the Federal Government would pay 75 percent of the costs and the state 19 percent, elected officials focused on the impact on municipal and county budgets.
Another impediment was simply the peculiar kind of amnesia that settles in after disasters, said Eric Evenson, the New Jersey district chief for the United States Geological Survey.
"It's my personal observation that the public at large, between droughts and floods, tends to forget," Mr. Evenson said. "The level of urgency for dealing with rare events just isn't there."
No one has ever doubted the potential for devastation when the lacework of rivers and brooks that feed into the Raritan River swells during extreme storms.
The plain below the 500-foot ridges known as the Watchung Mountains has flooded at least since Colonial times, with Green Brook developing a particularly nasty reputation as an amplifying funnel for water cascading from the hills.
Through the late 1880's and into this century, floods along Green Brook occurred regularly. Finally, in August 1932, New Jersey officials took the first stab at finding ways to hold back the waters, publishing a report titled "Control of Floods on Green Brook in the Counties of Middlesex, Somerset and Union."
Nothing came of it.
It took back-to-back severe floods in 1971 and then 1973, and the loss of six lives in the 1973 flash flood, which occurred on a tributary of Green Brook, to prompt new action. Altogether, floods along the Green Brook watershed from 1900 to 1996 caused $2.4 billion in damage, the Army Corps of Engineers has calculated.
In 1973, with strong local support, the corps began assessing whether levees, concrete channels and other means could minimize damage.
At the same time, New Jersey empowered communities that shared flooding problems to form flood control commissions, and the Green Brook Flood Control Commission was formed. It remains the only such commission in the state, Mr. Gilman said.
The group, comprising representatives from each county and town, met 10 times a year, year after year, working as a prod to the Army Corps and as a lobby in Washington to try to push Congress to keep the money moving.
It took the corps seven years to devise a preliminary plan. In 1980, the experts concluded that a project tightly focused on preventing flooding in the hardest-hit areas, like Bound Brook, could save lives and money. That conclusion met the agency's rules that economic benefits outweigh costs.
But prosperous suburbs farther up the Green Brook watershed, like Berkeley Heights and Scotch Plains, were upset that they were left out. They, after all, had suffered some of the worst effects of past floods, recalled Vernon A. Noble, 80, a former Mayor of Green Brook who has been chairman of the flood commission since its inception.
The commission pressed New Jersey's Congressional delegation to force the Army Corps to redo its plan.
But it had to wait six years to get its wish.
Pressure for the plan ebbed as memories of the floods faded. At the same time, as part of a war on pork-barrel spending, President Ronald Reagan cut nearly all money for water projects around the country.
Mr. Noble and other commission members -- who are unpaid -- made annual pilgrimages to Washington to testify about the need for protection. They got their five minutes, sandwiched between delegations from other states.
In 1986, Congress authorized money for the Green Brook project, but only if the Army Corps expanded it to include protection for communities all along the stream, not just at the soggiest end.
The engineers had concluded that this was not economically justified, but Congress essentially demanded that they find a way to justify it, said Mr. Gilman, the New Jersey flood official.
"That sent us back to square one," said Mr. Slezak of the Army Corps regional office. By the late 1980's, the plan had to change fundamentally anyway, he said, because so much time had passed that the entire area had changed. There were corporate parks, parking lots and shopping centers where there had been vacant land -- some in spots where levees were supposed to go. More years slid by.
Private environmental groups also began to fight more vigorously, opposing two big flood-control reservoirs that were planned for wooded, wild areas at the base of the Watchung range. Such basins hold back flood waters temporarily and release them slowly.
The groups also contended that the plan might encourage more development close to rivers, said Sunil Somalwar, a physics professor at Rutgers University who is a vice chairman of the New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club.
"For a lot of people, there's this promise that once the Army Corps steps in, floods will disappear, so let's go build close to the river," he said.
The project also lost steam within the corps as managers came and went, lured to higher-paying jobs in industry, Mr. Slezak said. Other water experts in the project point to the frequent rotation of officers through the top corps post in the region, which caused a loss of momentum.
Budgets also tightened again as the Clinton Administration cut Federal spending on flood projects within individual states, New Jersey and corps officials said.
A bad flood in October 1996 reinvigorated the flood plan.
But the following summer, it was changed once again. Senator Robert G. Torricelli, after strong lobbying by residents of Berkeley Heights, pushed through a law prohibiting the corps from building the basins at the upstream end. Over the years, the upstream communities had become more focused on environmental issues and less on the flood threat.
That part of the project was put on hold so that construction around Bound Brook could begin. Many officials involved in the plan say they doubt the upper part of the Green Brook project will ever be built.
In essence, a flood-control plan that began in 1980 as a focused effort in the lower portion of Green Brook, then was expanded at the behest of Congress, now reverted to its original dimensions. Along the way, a decade was lost.
In August, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman and Federal officials gathered in a Bound Brook park to announce that ground would finally be broken in the spring of 2000 on the first stage, the replacement of a 68-year-old bridge.
Now that park is a swamp, and the curbs of adjacent streets are banked high with discarded furniture.
Until late this summer, some residents of Bound Brook were still trying to block parts of the plan. And even now, others along the watershed, including some officials from neighboring Middlesex County, still question the need for the levees and pumping stations. Local environmental groups, and the state's Sierra Club chapter, still oppose the plan, saying the government would do better if it bought homes and businesses in harm's way.
In case the project drags on, corps officials this week said they were planning to update the old brochure promoting the flood plan -- adding photographs of the latest disaster.
As the remains of Floyd blew in on Sept. 16, J. B. Wiley Jr., an engineering consultant for the local flood control commission, was in his house in Bedminster Township, 20 miles upstream from Bound Brook, watching the upper Raritan River rise.
"When the water came across the field and began lapping against the road, I knew it was going to be bad down there," he said. He jumped in his car and drove toward the borough. "I was thinking about all those nice people who'd said this would never happen, therefore we didn't need the project," he said.
He arrived at Bound Brook as the evacuations began. "Watching all those poor people," he said, "really fired up my determination to see this thing through."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Raritan River and Bound Brook, N.J., on Sept. 17. The river crested more than 20 feet above flood stage because of Tropical Storm Floyd.
(Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 43); Flood waters swamped Bound Brook, N.J., in 1973, and that year, planning began on a flood control project. Construction has yet to begin. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)(pg. 48)
 
Chart/Map: "Fixing a Flood Zone"
Bound Brook lies at the southern end of a 12 mile corridor in northern New Jersey that has been slated for a flood-control system for more than two decades. Although too late for the deluge that overwhelmed Bound Brook this month, construction of the system, detailed here, is scheduled to begin next spring.
 
1. DRY DETENTION BASINS
Upstream embankments designed to temporarily pool water during heavy storms, protecting communities downstream. Construction of these is on hold.
 
2. CHANNEL MODIFICATION
Widening and deepening of the brook to improve flow.
 
3. LEVEES AND FLOOD WALLS
Mounds of earth (levees) or concrete barriers (flood walls) designed to hold back high water.
 
(Sources: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; Federal Emergency Management Agency)(Illustrations by Tom Zeller/The New York Times)(pg. 43)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (93%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (93%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (93%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (93%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOUND BROOK (NJ); GREEN BROOK; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CIVIL ENGINEERING (91%); WEATHER (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FLOOD ZONES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); FLOOD CONTROL (90%); ARMIES (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RIVERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HURRICANES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); BUDGET CUTS (57%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



603 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 5;Page 11;Column 1;Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2763 words

HEADLINE: In Praise of Country Churches

BYLINE: By RICHARD RUDA; RICHARD RUDA, who lives in Maryland, is a lawyer with an interest in architecture.

 BODY:
EVERY fan of Sir John Betjeman, the late poet laureate of Britain, is aware that parish church-crawling is a national pastime in England. "I know no greater pleasure than church-crawling," Sir John wrote. "It leads you to the remotest and quietest country. It introduces you to the history of England in stone and wood and glass which is always truer than what you read in books. You meet all sorts of people on your travels."
What Sir John's fans may not know is that his observations apply equally to the Colonial churches of rural eastern Virginia. Nor is this surprising. When they were built in the 17th and 18th centuries, Virginia was an English colony, and the Church of England was the established church in Virginia. The majority of churches built in Virginia before the Revolutionary War served parishes of this established church. After the war and disestablishment, these churches became Episcopal, and most remain so today. But Virginia's Colonial parish churches still have this in common with their Anglican counterparts in England: they are laden with historical associations and are architecturally delightful. 
 There are more than 50 pre-Revolutionary churches in eastern Virginia -- virtually all made of brick, thanks to an abundance of clay in the region. Most of the churches are still in use, and all are between a 15-minute to three-hour drive of Washington. I recently revisited 10 rural masterpieces -- Virginia's urban churches are frequently overwhelmed by their late 20th-century surroundings -- and returned more convinced than ever that Colonial church-crawling in Virginia is a must for the historically and architecturally minded traveler.
What should you look for in a Colonial church in Virginia? Here are a few suggestions, together with my favorite examples: churchyard and setting (St. Peter's), porches, towers and other exterior features (Yeocomico), brickwork of walls (Abingdon; Vawter's), decorative work around doors and windows (Aquia; Christ Church, Lancaster County), Colonial furnishings (Aquia; Christ Church), Colonial gravestones (Abingdon), the indefinable quality of instantly evoking the Colonial past (Merchant's Hope), and sheer architectural excellence (Christ Church, in a class by itself in America).
Aquia Church, 38 miles south of Washington and three miles north of Stafford, just off the traveler's inferno that is I-95, is a perfect place to begin. It excels in virtually every way that a Colonial church can excel. The sophistication of its craftsmanship and design is due to its relatively late date of construction, 1751-57, and the affluence of its congregation of tobacco planters. Several of Aquia's fine exterior features are immediately striking -- the elaborate stone decoration of its doorways and quoins (carved stones at corners where walls meet) and its 36 large windows, rectangular on the first story and arched on the second.
But Aquia's true glory is its interior. Try to visit on a sunny day, when the effect of light pouring in the 36 windows, together with the spaciousness and brilliance of its two-story interior in pure white, is literally breathtaking. Aquia's triple-decker pulpit with an intricate sounding board, its architectural altarpiece and its elaborate gallery are all original and superb in quality and state of preservation.
From Aquia I drove farther south on I-95 until I escaped onto U.S. 17 south, one of eastern Virginia's many scenic rural highways. At Loretto I stopped to admire Vawter's Church (1731). It is a charming building surrounded by cedar and walnut trees. Vawter's has some of Virginia's finest Colonial brickwork -- its walls laid in Flemish bond and its two doorways made of decorative rubbed brick.
Continuing south on U.S. 17, I crossed the Rappahannock River at Tappahannock and ventured on to the intensely historic peninsula known to Virginians as the Northern Neck. It is home to two of the most interesting Colonial buildings in the United States: Yeocomico Church near Hague, and Christ Church, Lancaster County, near Irvington.
Just finding Yeocomico on a tiny road two miles east of Hague is something of an accomplishment. Built in 1706 and named after a nearby river, it is one of the most wonderful -- and overlooked -- of America's Colonial buildings.
The most striking feature of diminutive Yeocomico Church is its decorated porch. It encloses an extraordinary late medieval artifact, what James Scott Rawlings describes as "an enormous Tudor battened door that also includes the only wicket door known in Colonial America." The wicket is a smaller door within a door for use in bad weather. The great door of Yeocomico weighs 1,000 pounds and is said to be a vestige of the earlier wooden church of 1655.
Other exterior features not to be missed are the incised initials and decorations on the south and east walls discreetly placed there, after the custom, by Yeocomico's Colonial vestrymen and the craftsmen who built the church. And be sure to have a look at the 1717 sundial in the churchyard, and the graves of Daniel McCarty, and his wife, Elizabeth Pope, adjacent to the east wall. McCarty was speaker of the Virginia House of Burgesses from 1715 to 1718. Pope, who had four children from her first marriage and eight with McCarty, died in 1716 at age 39.
During my midweek visit I was lucky enough to run into the then-rector of Yeocomico, the Rev. Philip Wainwright, who showed me the interior of the church. Although extensively altered in post-Colonial times, the interior is just as delightful as the exterior and contains a noteworthy Colonial communion table. As we left the church, the rector ruefully remarked, "I can't understand why we don't get busloads of visitors here."
Christ Church, Lancaster County, built in the early 1730's, is just outside Irvington at the southern end of the Northern Neck. It is one of America's finest Colonial buildings -- elegant, majestic, superbly proportioned, a building of timeless beauty. As no less an authority than G. E. Kidder Smith puts it in his Source Book of American Architecture, Christ Church exhibits "a perfection that makes it a strong contender for the most handsome church exterior in the United States." Its designer is unknown.
Christ Church is operated by a foundation and is open every day from April through Thanksgiving. Visitors should start in the excellent small museum next door. There is a 12-minute videotape and exhibits on the history of the church, the design and use of Colonial churches, and the Virginia planter who had the church built, Robert (King) Carter, who was very rich and highly cultured. He and his two wives are buried in elaborate raised tombs next to the church.
Friendly and knowledgeable guides are available to escort visitors through the church interior. The Colonial furnishings of the 1730's are of singular interest and importance, and include a combination of triple-decker pulpit and high box pews that is rare today even in England. (Your guide may encourage you to try out the Carters' immense pew.) The stone floor is original; the stone comes from the Isle of Purbeck in Dorset. It is the same stone used since medieval times to decorate English churches and cathedrals.
From Christ Church I drove south 27 miles to Ware Church, built in the early 18th century, just east of Gloucester, and Abingdon Church (1755) seven miles south of Ware. Both have superb brickwork and exceptionally interesting churchyards. Abingdon, in particular, is built of brick that is ethereal in color, salmon pink and pastel gray, and has a wonderful array of Colonial gravestones.
My next stop was St. Luke's Church, near Smithfield. I always approach St. Luke's, a red brick church set back from Route 10, with trepidation. On one hand it is a genuine late (very late) Gothic parish church that must be seen -- its Gothic tower, buttresses and windows are fascinating and unique in this country. On the other hand, the date of 1632 claimed for the church is almost certainly 50 years too early, and the late 19th-century stained glass that fills the windows is very distracting. (Fortunately, the electronic carillon in the tower was broken during my visit.)
After leaving the church, I headed west on Route 10, another scenic and historic Virginia byway. Fifteen miles from St. Luke's is Bacon's Castle, a mid-17th-century brick manor house with extraordinary Jacobean features, which is open to visitors from March to November. A half mile farther are the eerie remains of Lower Southwark Church (1754), an imposing rectangular structure that burned in 1868 and was never rebuilt, together with its ancient churchyard. Visit at dusk, as I did, but not on Halloween.
Continuing west on Route 10 for another 30 miles (and then half a mile south on State Road 641) is one of my favorite Virginia buildings, Merchant's Hope Church. Its likely date of construction is 1657, which makes it the oldest church in the state still serving a congregation. A small rectangular structure, it has a charming "kick" in the eaves, decorative brickwork in the gables, and Colonial doors. Because of its simplicity, authenticity and isolated location on a back road miles from the nearest town, Merchant's Hope is uncanny in the way it evokes the Colonial past.
I ended my church crawl at St. Peter's, New Kent County, 20 miles north of Merchant's Hope via Route 106. This delightful building should be enjoyed, not analyzed. The approach to the church and the churchyard are the most magnificent in Virginia. The brick church building dates from 1703, with an imposing tower added 40 years later. The Flemish strapwork above the gables may be fanciful, but the walls and tower are original and the ensemble is extremely picturesque.
In the 1960's the interior of St. Peter's was stripped down to the bare brick walls and dirt floor and meticulously restored to a late 17th-century appearance. Its restored interior furnishings and windows include a triple-decker pulpit, a beautiful east window and the seal of Queen Anne (monarch in 1703). But the outstanding features of the interior are two 18th-century wall monuments. One, carved in Bristol in 1737, is fully equal in quality to similar monuments in English churches.
I had phoned ahead in order to see the interior on a weekday. The Rev. Brian McGurk met me at the church and shared some of its ample history. St. Peter's has close associations with Martha and George Washington, Robert E. Lee of the Confederacy and Gen. George McClellan of the Union. Some people think that the Washingtons were married at St. Peter's and call it "the first church of the first First Lady." Historians are unsure whether the wedding took place there or at the nearby Custis Plantation. I like to think that George and Martha had the good sense to get married at one of Virginia's most charming Colonial churches.
 
Gravestones, box pews and triple-decker pulpits
Although Newport News, Hampton and Norfolk were declared part of a major disaster area after Hurricane Floyd hit Sept. 16, the storm turned northeast at this point and did not enter Chesapeake Bay, sparing the churches described here except for minor damage to trees and grounds.
 
Touring the Churches
Christ Church, Lancaster County, (804) 438-6855, and St. Luke's Church, (757) 357-3367, are operated by foundations and regularly open to visitors. Christ Church and its museum are open every day from April through November; St. Luke's, every day except Monday from February to December. Admission is free, although donations are accepted.
All the other churches, except Lower Southwark, serve active parishes. They are open for services on Sundays, and while visitors can't explore the inside of a church during a service, they can usually duck in before or after. You can try to call ahead to arrange to see a church interior on a weekday, but keep in mind that most interiors have been greatly altered over the centuries and that the principal Colonial features of many churches are on the exterior and in the churchyard.
 
Getting There
Aquia Church is on a hill on the northeast corner of the intersection of State Road 610 and U.S. 1, just east of Exit 143 off I-95.
Vawter's Church is on the east side of U.S. 17 in Loretto, 25 miles south of Exit 126 off I-95.
Yeocomico Church is near Hague in Westmoreland County, on the Potomac side of the Northern Neck. It is reached via State Highway 202, which connects Templeman and Cal-
lao. Take 202 to its intersection with State Road 604 (Sandy Point Road), two and a half miles south of Hague. Go east on 604 for one and a half miles to State Road 606 (Old Yeocomico Road). Turn left onto 606 and Yeocomico Church will be on your left in less than a mile.
Christ Church, Lancaster County, just outside Irvington on Route 646, can be reached via State Highway 200 from Kilmarnock (from the north) or Irvington (from the south).
Ware Church and Abingdon Church are both near Gloucester, in Gloucester County. Ware is a mile east of Gloucester, on the south side of State Highway 3/14. Abingdon is six miles south of Gloucester, on the east side of U.S. 17.
St. Luke's is at the intersection of State Highways 10 and 32, five miles southeast of Smithfield.
The ruins of Lower Southwark Church are on the south side of Highway 10, 11 miles west of Smithfield.
To get to Merchant's Hope, six miles east of Hopewell, continue west on 10 to its intersection with State Road 641 (Merchant's Hope Road), 30 miles west of Lower Southwark. Turn left on 641 and the church will be on your right in half a mile.
St. Peter's in New Kent County can be reached via State Highway 106 from the Merchant's Hope vicinity or I-64 east from Richmond (use Exit 211). Take 106 north to its intersection with State Highway 249 (one and a half miles north of I-64), where 106 becomes State Road 609 (Old Church Road). Continue north on 609 for less than a mile to the intersection with State Road 642 (St. Peter's Lane). Turn right on 642, which takes you to the gates of the churchyard.
 
Where to Stay
Southeastern Virginia has innumerable chain motels; on my most recent trip I stayed 500 yards from St. Luke's at the Econo Lodge, 20080 Brewers Neck Boulevard, in Benn's Church; (800) 553-2666. My spotless room, with microwave and refrigerator, cost $36. On other trips I have been very happy at Marriott's Towne Place Suites, 200 A/B Cybernetics Way, Newport News; (800) 228-9290. All rooms have kitchens; a two-bedroom suite is $119.
Church-crawling in rural Virginia need not be an exercise in abnegation, however. In Irvington, close by Christ Church, are the Tides Inn, 480 King Carter Drive, (800) 843-3746), and the less formal Tides Lodge, 1 St. Andrews Lane, (800) 248-4337. Both have extensive golfing facilities and marinas. Doubles about $170 at both hotels; package plans available. In downtown Richmond, an easy drive from St. Peter's and Merchant's Hope, is the magnificent 1895 Jefferson Hotel, at the corner of Franklin and Adams Streets, (800) 424-8014, fax (804) 225-0334, a registered historic landmark. Rooms from $195, double occupancy; suites from $295.
The Linden House Bed and Breakfast Plantation, 11770 Tidewater Trail, (800) 622-1202, also on the National Register of Historic Places, is a restored planter's home built in 1750. It is on a quiet stretch of U.S. 17 in Champlain, five miles south of Vawter's Church, less than an hour's drive from Yeocomico Church. Rooms: $85 to $135, with breakfast.
 
Books and Maps
The state road map published by the Virginia Department of Transportation is excellent for planning and also indicates scenic byways. It can be obtained from state tourism offices along Interstates and from the Virginia Department of Transportation, Administrative Services Division, 1401 East Broad Street, Richmond, Va. 23219; (804) 786-2838. The Virginia Atlas and Gazetteer (DeLorme, $16.95) is indispensable for finding your way to (and from) churches like Yeocomico, Christ Church and Merchant's Hope.
Two invaluable books, both unfortunately out of print, are George Carrington Mason's "Colonial Churches of Tidewater Virginia" (Whittet & Shepperson, 1945) and James Scott Rawlings's "Virginia's Colonial Churches: An Architectural Guide" (Garrett & Massie, 1963). Church crawlers may also find inspiration in Sir John Betjeman's "In Praise of Churches" (John Murray, 1996), an anthology of Sir John's inimitable prose and verse about English parish churches. RICHARD RUDA
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Sept. 26 with an article about churches in Virginia reversed two of their identities. St. Peter's, east of Richmond, was above; Abingdon Church, southeast of Gloucester, was on the left.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Brickwork at Merchant's Hope, near Hopewell. CENTER AND RIGHT At Yeocomico near Hague, a door within a door and initials on a wall, incised by vestrymen or craftsmen. Behind St. Peter's, east of Richmond, early 18th-century graves. Abingdon Church, southeast of Gloucester. Rare three-tier pulpit at Christ Church, near Irvington. Spacious and serene Aquia Church, also with a triple-decker pulpit, near Stafford. (Photographs by Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)(pg. 11); St. Luke's, in the late Gothic style, near Smithfield. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)(pg. 22)
 
Map of Virginia shows location of various churches. (pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ENGLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (97%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRIST CHURCH (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); ENGLAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (97%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. from NYTimes. RELIGION (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); WRITERS (78%); POETRY (78%); 

PERSON: JOHN BETJEMAN (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



604 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1999

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: A Refuge for Urbanites in Back Country Virginia

BYLINE: By JAMES R. HARDCASTLE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Va.

 BODY:
BECAUSE it is in the rugged Blue Ridge Mountains and is not served by railroads or major highways, Rappahannock County's residential and commercial growth has lagged far behind the counties that abut it on three sides, which are considered part of the Baltimore-Washington metropolitan area.
This suits most people here just fine because the county's natural beauty and relaxed pace of life are what makes it such a good place to live, says John McCarthy, the County Administrator. Between 1930 and 1970, the county's population declined from 7,717 to 5,199 as the move from farms to the cities continued. 
 However, slow but steady construction of new homes since -- currently at a rate of about 50 a year, with some costing more than $1 million -- has brought the population of the 267-square-mile county to about 7,200 as it becomes an important getaway for affluent city dwellers and a year-round home to urban refugees.
Dr. Werner Krebser, the chairman of the County Planning Commission, said there had been general agreement between old-time landowners and newcomers on a slow-growth policy. Since 1966, the county zoning ordinance has required a minimum residential lot size of 25 acres on most of the land outside its four hamlets and the Town of Washington, the county seat.
There are no supermarkets, convenience stores, fast food restaurants or stoplights in the county. Day-to-day needs are met by traditional general stores, which also serve as community gathering places. (The county does, however, have a widely known and luxurious restaurant and hotel, the Inn at Little Washington.)
The absence of these amenities is one of the main reasons why James Abdo, a Washington, D.C., real estate developer, said he bought a 60-acre farm south of Sperryville from David Brinkley, the retired news commentator. "I hope I don't live to see them there," he added.
Mr. Abdo, who is 39 and single, says he drives the 80 miles from the nation's capital to the 60-acre farm he bought seven and a half years ago for $335,000 nearly every weekend. He said he wanted to expand the main house, but that he been holding off until he meets "the woman of my dreams."
"This is a very special place to me," he said. "It's part of the fabric of my life. I want it to be a special place for that person, too."
Mr. Brinkley, who owned the farm for more than 30 years, wasn't the only notable to find the county a convenient place for a hideaway or a year-round home.
The conductor Lorin Maazel has built a house, guest cottages and a recording studio on a 193-acre farm here. He is also a key supporter of the Hearthstone School, which was built on his property and which his young children attend. Former United States Senator Eugene McCarthy, the political cartoonist Jeff MacNelly and the political commentators Rowland Evans and James Kilpatrick also maintain homes here.
David Adoff, a real estate agent, and his wife, Hildy Teegen, an associate professor at George Washington University in the nation's capitol, decided to settle here after driving through the county on their way to the Shenandoah National Park four years ago.
WHAT clinched their decision to buy a home here was a chance stop at the Mountainside Market, a 4,000-square-foot general store/deli/laundromat built along the road to the national park that serves as the community hangout for the artists, musicians and alternative culture element in Rappahannock County.
After the couple looked at the store's eclectic deli menu and inspected its diverse stock -- which includes art objects and shelves of vegetarian foods, herbal and homeopathic medicines and 150 types of beer -- "we decided that if the community can support this kind of food and drink, this is a place we want to live," he said.
Mr. Adoff, a former home builder who publishes an online guide to the county and works part-time for a real estate firm, and his wife have since purchased three lots along a hollow leading up to the Skyline Drive. They have also built a 2,000-square-foot, cedar-sided home with views of the surrounding mountains on one five-acre lot and a 1,000-square-foot guest house, which they rent out to tourists, on a four-acre lot. All three of the lots were laid out prior to the passage of the 25-acre zoning ordinance.
Recently, the couple put the house up for sale for $279,000 and the cabin for $160,000 so they can build a new house elsewhere in the county.
Mr. Adoff said that because of the 25-acre zoning, Rappahannock County homes are expensive. Residential lots will sell for $3,000 to $5,000 per acre, depending upon the view. To this must be added the cost of digging a well, installing a septic field and building a driveway.
Because of the expense of housing, the typical buyer is a professional in his or her 50's or 60's who wants to spend weekends in the county until moving there permanently at retirement, Mr. Adoff said.
A powerful visitor's draw to the county is the Inn at Little Washington, an 80-seat restaurant and a 14-room inn that is consistently ranked as one of the finest country inns in the nation. The inn draws its name from a local name for the Town of Washington, population 190. It is named for George Washington, who as a young surveyor laid out its five-block by two-block street grid in 1749.
The inn's co-owner and chef, Patrick O'Connell, a native of Washington, D.C., said he had fallen in love with the county's countryside as a child in family drives to Luray, Va. In 1967, the self-taught chef purchased a three-acre property near here while he was still in his early 20's.
Five years later, he purchased a 100-acre farm at the foot of nearby Old Rag Mountain, where he raised vegetables for sale to health-food shops in the District of Columbia. His vegetable business soon evolved into a catering enterprise that took him into the homes of many well-to-do families in the Virginia hunt country which includes the eastern part of Rappahannock County.
Learning of his clients' need for a place where they could entertain, he and his partner, Reinhardt Lynch, leased half of an old garage in the Town of Washington for $200 month and converted it into the restaurant. The inn opened in 1978 and over the years, the lush rooms, with rates of $340 to $640 a night, not including meals, and a $5 million kitchen wing have been added.
All along the way, the Inn has eagerly sought out specialty products, such as smoked trout, fallow deer, exotic vegetables, mushrooms and rabbits from local farmers. In recent months, David Cole, the former president of America Online's Internet services unit, announced plans to convert two historic buildings across the street from the inn into a center that would retail premium organic food items such as the Kobe beef and premium berries he is raising at his nearby Sunnyside Farm.
One of the buildings would also become headquarters for walnutacres.com, an online organic-foods store that would sell products from Sunnyside and Walnut Acres Organic Farms, a leading provider of organic foods based Penns Creek, Pa., that Mr. Cole acquired a controlling interest in this summer.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: William Cole, above, at his father's ranch, which raises Kobe cattle. Left Patrick O'Connell, chef and co-owner of the Inn at Little Washington. (Photographs by Michael Geissinger for The New YorK Times)
 
Map of northern Virginia, highlighting Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RAPPAHANNOCK COUNTY (VA); UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COUNTIES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); ORDINANCES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); TRENDS (73%); ZONING (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%); FAST FOOD (64%); RETAILERS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: HARDCASTLE, JAMES R DAVID ADOFF (69%); DAVID BRINKLEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1999



605 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Philanthropy The Smart Way

BYLINE: By Ron Chernow; Ron Chernow is the author of "Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller Sr." He is currently working on a biography of Alexander Hamilton.

 BODY:
In his celebrated 1889 essay "Wealth," Andrew Carnegie admonished fellow grandees of the Gilded Age that "the man who dies thus rich dies disgraced." Carnegie devoutly believed that businessmen should repay their debt to society, applying their skills to philanthropic enterprise. He wanted active involvement, not just a fistful of checks.
If necessary, Carnegie favored stiff inheritance taxes that would force the rich to disgorge their money to society rather than leave it to pampered heirs. True to his beliefs, Carnegie, by his death in 1919, had divested more than 95 percent of his fortune. 
 Bill Gates has now transferred $17 billion to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, including a gift of $1 billion for college scholarships to minority students, suggesting that our software king may have heeded Carnegie's message. Skeptics may discern an attempt by Mr. Gates to burnish his image or deflect attention from the Microsoft antitrust trial. But whatever his motives, he has begun a metamorphosis from businessman to philanthropist, something far too few of his business peers have made a serious effort to do. He ought to be be widely emulated, lest history castigate ours as an age of oversized egos, self-indulgence and hubris about our technological supremacy.
We are quick to revile the so-called robber barons of the Gilded Age, perhaps to assert our own moral superiority. We denounce their rapacious monopolies and brutal labor practices, their flagrant contempt for public opinion. And our image of their social life is a gaudy cartoon of private railroad cars, sybaritic balls in Newport cottages and luxurious steam yachts.
While the stereotype contains much truth, it overlooks a redeeming aspect of that opulent time: our harshest industrial overlords proved our most enlightened philanthropists. The lives of John D. Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie, tough men from hardscrabble backgrounds who lacked college education, furnish rich lessons for would-be benefactors. They transcended the sentiment and haphazard methods of Victorian charity, substituting the rigor of modern philanthropy. Instead of sponsoring another hospital or museum wing, Carnegie and Rockefeller promoted ideas.
Rockefeller, for example, bankrolled the campus for Spelman College in Atlanta, dedicated to educating black women, and the University of Chicago. He provided backing for many medical triumphs: a treatment for meningitis, a campaign that cured 500,000 cases of hookworm in the South and a vaccine against yellow fever.
Gilded Age moguls operated in a poisonous atmosphere of suspicion since their fortunes and industrial empires seemed menacing to a public reared in a more innocent, pastoral America. By forcing them to exercise extreme care in their charitable priorities, the truculent mood of the day may actually have had a salutary effect on Rockefeller and Carnegie. Both saw philanthrophy as something embedded deep in belief systems that viewed money-making, in isolation, as harmful to society.
As conservative businessmen, Rockefeller and Carnegie frowned on projects that might breed passivity. Carnegie's promise to build a splendid library building for any town came with a catch: municipal authorities had to provide a central site, stock the building with books and guarantee maintenance money. In exchange for coveted Carnegie pensions for professors, universities needed to satisfy strict standards of educational excellence. Both Rockefeller and Carnegie enshrined a momentous principle: the philanthropist should serve as catalyst, not owner, of his creations.
Bolstered by vast endowments and broad charters, the Carnegie Corporation (1911) and the Rockefeller Foundation (1913) gradually acquired a large measure of autonomy from their founders. While huge, multi-purpose foundations are today rife with problems, ranging from bureaucratic rigidity to lack of focus to political faddishness, they remain part of an implicit social contract that stipulates that wealth, beyond a certain point, should revert to society.
It is strange, then, that the American public has been so tolerant of the huge agglomerations of money in the 1980's and 90's. We have a generation of young businessmen accorded the adulation due to folk heroes because they have created "shareholder value" -- a euphemism for higher stock prices. Nearly 20 years of high employment, low inflation, steady growth and a booming stock market (the great American antidote to class conflict) have dulled demands for inventive, large-scale philanthropy.
Surely one can applaud the business accomplishments of our titans in high technology, biotechnology and finance without imagining that they have thereby exhausted their obligations to society. But the political pressure that prompted Carnegie and Rockefeller to creative breakthroughs has been conspicuously missing.
On paper, anyway, it would appear that Americans in recent years haven't stinted on charity -- last year they boosted their annual giving to a record $175 billion. Still, cynics cannot be blamed for wondering about the motives behind it all, as the ambitious jockey for seats on prestigious nonprofit boards and tables at charity balls. Our era has seen plenty of old-fashioned gifts to cultural, medical and educational institutions, with the donors' names prominently gracing doorways. Yes, we should doubtless be grateful that such gifts keep alive many an artistic group or drug abuse program that might otherwise wither. The real problem is the absence of adventurous initiatives that seek social change in a manner beyond the capacity of government.
For that reason, one fervently hopes that the Gateses' largesse -- along with commitments made in recent years by George Soros, Ted Turner and other super-rich business figures -- will stimulate many laggards to follow suit. When a Warren Buffett, the nation's second richest man, elects to defer major donations until after his death, he deprives us not just of his money but of his acumen.
An age of business innovation should be counterbalanced by analogous ingenuity in good works. One is heartened by the small-scale "venture philanthropy" undertaken by some Silicon Valley denizens who have shown business savvy, a hands-on style and a quest for measurable results in their giving. And several businessmen -- including Theodore J. Forstmann, the Wall Street financier, and Eli Broad, the chairman of Sun America -- have showered huge sums on education in the form of scholarships, vouchers, awards and training grants, to provoke overdue reform.
The brains and abundant resources now exist for the greatest flowering of philanthropy in American history. Let us hope that the acquisitive streak in our culture will be matched by a new altruism. Otherwise, history may stigmatize us as a second Gilded Age, but one devoid of the audacious giving that proved the saving grace of the first.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (56%); BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (57%); BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (57%); BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY PHILANTHROPY (92%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (74%); ESTATE TAX (73%); MENINGITIS (70%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (68%); VACCINES (63%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (60%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (50%); 

PERSON: CHERNOW, RON; GATES, BILL (WILLIAM H); CARNEGIE, ANDREW (1835-1919) BILL GATES (90%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999



606 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY;
A Founder of a Year 2000 Service Quits to Try a Different Approach

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
Saying that people are losing interest in efforts to organize neighborhoods and communities for potential Year 2000 computer threats, the co-founder of an Internet-based clearinghouse for such grass-roots activities has resigned as the service's research director.
"We seem to have hit a wall," said Paloma O'Riley, who co-founded the clearinghouse, the Cassandra Project, in June of 1997. Her activism brought invitations to testify before Congress and made her a leader in the pursuit of grass-roots responses to potential Year 2000 problems. 
 "People are developing a false sense of security," she said last week.
Far from abandoning Year 2000 work though, Ms. O'Riley said she was leaving Cassandra to press public officials to prepare more aggressively for possible disasters. Her new focus on political advocacy might have jeopardized Cassandra's tax-exempt status had she stayed, she said.
Cassandra (www.cassandraproject.org) will continue under Catherine Moyer, a Denver-based data-base designer who co-founded the group and had already assumed much of the public appearance responsibilities from Ms. O'Riley in recent months.
The clearinghouse is being redesigned to focus more on specific areas of concern, including preparations at mental health centers and environmental threats from Year 2000 problems, Ms. Moyer said. The site lists several hundred Year 2000 community groups in the United States and overseas, but no one is sure how many are active.
Ms. O'Riley said advocates of individual and community preparedness had been undermined by the steadily increasing drumbeat of optimistic news about the nation's readiness for 2000.
The final blow, she said, was the recent assertion by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, that there was a "negligible" chance of widespread disruption of banks and other key institutions in the United States. Mr. Greenspan warned that fear of Year 2000 disruptions was more likely to hurt the economy than was the computer problem itself, especially if people emptied grocery store shelves and bank accounts in anticipation of widespread disasters when computers failed to recognize "00" as 2000.
In the current atmosphere, Ms. O'Riley said, even those officials who believe that it makes sense to prepare for disruptions like loss of power, phones or water are afraid they will be stymied and exposed to ridicule if they act on those beliefs. To counter the inertia, Ms. O'Riley is hoping to come up with ways to make local officials believe that they could face legal or financial liabilities if their failure to act results in breakdowns in local services or public safety.
But Steven Davis, a former computer manager for Montgomery County, Md., who frequently works with community-based Year 2000 programs, said: "Threatening to hold government officials accountable is a tough way to get them to act. I wish her luck."
Ms. O'Riley, a 44-year-old New York native, became a believer in the value of self-sufficiency while living in rural Alaska with her husband and two sons in the 1980's. She first encountered Year 2000 computer issues as a computer security officer at the Oakland Naval Hospital in 1990 during the war in the Persian Gulf. A stint as the Year 2000 project manager for the Rover Group Ltd. in England several years later convinced her that disruptions could be global and widespread.
Ms. O'Riley decided to leave Rover and concentrate on raising public awareness of the potential Year 2000 threat. She and her husband, Kevin, chose Colorado as their base of operations. Mr. O'Riley is a mechanical engineer at the Maxtor Corporation, a maker of computer hard drives in Longmont, Colo., and is active in that company's Year 2000 program.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paloma O'Riley, left, with a Year 2000 community group leader, Kathy Garcia. (Nico Toutenhoofd for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CASSANDRA PROJECT

ORGANIZATION: CASSANDRA PROJECT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); COMPUTER SOFTWARE YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (51%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (51%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; O'RILEY, PALOMA STEVEN A DAVIS (50%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999



607 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Media Talk;
New Magazine to Challenge Los Angeles

BYLINE: By CHRISTIAN BERTHELSEN 

 BODY:
Ask magazine insiders why Los Angeles cannot support more than one city glossy, and they will offer a handful of theories: the city is too disparate demographically; the upstarts are of poor quality; Angelenos, they contend, don't read.
In 37 years, one city magazine , Los Angeles, has survived. Next month, another challenger, Channel Los Angeles, will be spun off from Channel Miami, owned by a former stockbroker, Richard Bronson. It will be mailed to high-income households and given away at trendy boutiques, with the hope of eventually drawing paying subscribers. 
To distinguish itself, Channel is taking an approach that makes the soft-focus Los Angeles seem hard-boiled. The first issue, scheduled for Oct. 13, is heavy on celebrity sightings, with profiles of the actress Angela Bassett and Randy Gerber, a nightclub proprietor, and an article on the fashion accessories of celebrities' dogs.
"What Channel magazine won't be doing is nasty expose stories," said Sue Cameron, the magazine's executive editor. What there will be, she said, is a plastic surgery column written by the former Manhattan madam Sidney Biddle Barrows.
The economics of the industry require a delicate balance. The key is reaching the most affluent readers in the city to draw advertisers, though that market ends up being minuscule -- many place it around 200,000 readers. Los Angeles already has 183,000 of those readers, said its publisher, Liz Miller.
Some in the magazine business give the newcomer little chance. "I don't think the world needs another celebrity-oriented magazine," said Allan Mayer, former editor of Buzz.
But Ms. Cameron said, "I think Los Angeles is a city that can support more than one magazine."
 CHRISTIAN BERTHELSEN
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The owners of Channel Miami are preparing a Los Angeles clone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CHANNEL LOS ANGELES; LOS ANGELES (MAGAZINE) LOS ANGELES LOS ANGELES (59%); LOS ANGELES LOS ANGELES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHANNEL LOS ANGELES; LOS ANGELES (MAGAZINE) LOS ANGELES LOS ANGELES (59%); LOS ANGELES LOS ANGELES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES CELEBRITIES (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (75%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (52%); 

PERSON: BERTHELSEN, CHRISTIAN ANGELA BASSETT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999



608 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY: E-Commerce Report;
Many Internet companies have focused on attracting customers. The bigger challenge is fulfilling orders.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
COMPANIES involved in E-commerce have achieved most-envied status in the late 1990's business world with their riches from initial public offerings, gaudy marketing budgets and news clippings that laud them as pioneers of an industrial transformation.
Given the glamour, then, it is not a little ironic that the most important issue facing the industry is the retail function with the least board room cachet: order fulfillment. 
 Picking, packing and shipping products was difficult enough in recent years for Internet retailers who had no experience in such matters. But with consumers' expectations rising and E-commerce companies preparing to ship a wider array of merchandise to customers this holiday season, distribution issues loom even larger than before.
"This is emerging as a huge issue," said John Hagel, who leads the E-commerce practice for McKinsey & Company, the consulting firm. "And it's a real bottleneck to growth. Too many companies started with the assumption that the challenge was getting people to buy things, when, in fact, the real challenge is getting it to them."
According to Forrester Research, an Internet consulting firm, Web retailers will ship roughly 230 million packages this year -- mostly during the holiday season. Large companies like PlanetRx and Etoys ship more than 1,000 packages daily, while the industry behemoth, Amazon.com, ships more than 10,000 a day. And last week, the research firm of Jupiter Communications predicted that the busiest sites, including Amazon, CDNow and Barnesandnoble.com, may each reach 58,000 transactions a day in November and December.
That process is rife with potential pitfalls and inefficiencies. In their infancy, most merchants simply took customers' orders, had them handled by a distributor and hoped that the items were in stock and shipped on time to the right people. In those days -- which, in some cases, extend to today -- customers could all but count on E-mail telling them their ordered items were out of stock or would be shipped late.
Competition is starting to halt such practices. To gain customer allegiance, Internet merchants are seeking more control over the shipping process. In many instances, most notably in the case of Amazon, they are building huge warehouses of their own near major shipping hubs. But because a high-technology distribution center can take two to three years to complete, Internet merchants are scrambling to find third parties to handle distribution for them. Two leaders in this category are Federated Department Store's Fingerhut Business Services Inc. and Hanover Direct's Keystone Fulfillment Inc.
Keystone handles fulfillment for Mercata, KBkids and Dress Barn, while Fingerhut does the same for Wal-Mart Stores, Levi Strauss and Etoys, among others. Fingerhut's 1.2-million-square-foot distribution center in Provo, Utah, will employ as many as 1,200 workers during the holiday peak, processing orders, shipping items and handling returns.
To the dismay of many E-commerce executives, such arrangements entail far more than simply writing a check and getting back to the business of planning the company's initial public offering. Because consumers are increasingly demanding so-called real-time inventory -- which includes access to information about product availability and shipping status -- distribution warehouses must be closely wired to the merchant's Web operations. Third-party distributors, however, typically have their own electronic tracking and ordering systems, which require painstaking efforts to link with the retailer.
"For every order, we have to pass information to their system," said Louis Zambello, senior vice president of Etoys, which recently began shipping products from Fingerhut's Utah warehouse.
"The warehouse then has to pass it back to us for confirmation," Mr. Zambello said. "When the item ships, that information goes to us for confirmation. When they get inventory in stock, that also has to go to our system, and if you do anything special for the customer, it has to flow from you to the outsourcer, back to you for confirmation."
Integrating the retailer's computer system with the distributor's, he said, "takes dozens of people on both sides working long hours."
Mr. Zambello added, "The misconception is that outsourcing is easier, but it's just different."
Though Etoys and Fingerhut would not disclose the costs associated with building warehouses or maintaining outsourcing relationships, Rakesh Kaul, president and chief executive of Hanover Direct, said the costs for both options could be steep.
Companies can expect to pay between $60 million and $80 million to build a one-million-square-foot warehouse, Mr. Kaul said, while they would pay a third-party distributor roughly 10 percent of each sale to fulfill their orders. In building distribution centers of their own, E-commerce companies "have to bear in mind fixed costs," he said.
"It's like owning a 747," Mr. Kaul said. "You have to be big, or fortunate enough to fill it, because if you don't fill it and operate all the time, you're guaranteed to lose money."
Mr. Hagel of McKinsey agreed. "Unless you do high volume, it doesn't make sense to build this capacity in the long run. There are significant economies of skill and scale in these businesses," he said, referring to third-party distributors.
Gaining assistance from fulfillment experts will be even more critical, Mr. Hagel said, as E-commerce companies evolve. Not only will Web retailers increasingly seek to sell products abroad -- an exercise that presents logistical nightmares -- but they will also be pushed by consumers to even greater levels of service, including customized products.
More immediately, though, Mr. Hagel said, Internet retailers are complicating matters by broadening their product selection in an effort to increase the amount spent by each customer. That means potentially shipping multiple items from multiple points, using different shippers.
"On one hand, I understand the importance of that as a way to derive more revenue from customers," Mr. Hagel said. "But on the other hand, if these companies think they've been challenged by fulfillment issues to date, it's nothing compared to what's coming."
If nothing else, the sudden ascendancy of fulfillment is vindicating a segment of the business world that has long suffered from a lack of respect.
"We used to be those guys in the dirty suits out there," said John Buck, president of Fingerhut Business Services. "Would you believe that fulfillment is the darling of the day? It's actually stunning to me."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fingerhut's distribution center near Provo, Utah, handles orders for Etoys. Clockwise from far lower left, products arrive from toy makers; a worker checks an invoice and begins preliminary sorting; at an automated bin, a worker receives items for a customer's order, which is boxed and sent by conveyor to two workers, who prepare it for shipping. (Photographs by George Frey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (54%); WMT (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (54%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (92%); 

CITY: PROVO, UT, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (83%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); AMAZON.COM INC (54%); BARNESANDNOBLE.COM LLC (54%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); PROVO, UT, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; DELIVERY SERVICES INTERNET & WWW (91%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (91%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); ORDER FULFILLMENT (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (79%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); MUSIC STORES (70%); 

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB LOUIS ZAMBELLO (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999



609 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Chief to Be Renominated

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
President Clinton has decided to renominate James D. Wolfensohn as president of the World Bank, Administration officials said today -- a political victory for the former investment banker who openly split with the Administration over its early handling of the Asian financial crisis.
Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers informed finance ministers of the other major industrial nations of the decision on Saturday, telling them that "Jim Wolfensohn has done an extraoridinary job of bringing energy and passion to the bank's crucial development mission." Mr. Wolfensohn is in the midst of restructuring the bank, whose mission is to combat poverty around the world. 
 In late 1997 and early 1998, Mr. Wolfensohn openly accused both the Treasury and the World Bank's sister institution, the International Monetary Fund, of devising national bailouts in Asia that paid too little attention to hardships that would result for the poorest residents of Indonesia, Thailand, South Korea and other nations.
The rescue packages, he contended, were too skewed toward aiding banks and international lenders. But in recent months he has smoothed over relations with the Administration, and officials say there was no real debate about his reappointment, which is likely to be announced formally on Tuesday.
Today, speaking at the annual meetings of the World Bank and the I.M.F., Mr. Wolfenson said that while Asia is recovering, "the economic situation is especially difficult in Latin America," and that "we will still be going backward rather than forward in the fight to reduce global poverty." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (91%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); LATIN AMERICA (57%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT LAWRENCE H STEIN (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (75%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (75%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); LATIN AMERICA (57%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); FOREIGN LENDING (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WOLFENSOHN, JAMES D BILL CLINTON (74%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999



610 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: General Motors and Union Negotiators Said to Be Close to 4-Year Agreement

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 26

 BODY:
General Motors and the United Automobile Workers hope to reach a new, four-year labor contract within the next several days as the relationship between the world's largest company and its main union appears to have improved considerably since last year's 54-day strike in Flint, Mich., auto industry and union officials said today.
A G.M. official close to the talks said, "They're making progress; they met until very late last night." 
 Negotiators worked through the weekend to mold an agreement similar to the one reached by the union with DaimlerChrysler A.G. on Sept. 16. DaimlerChrysler workers voted on that agreement on Saturday. While the results are not scheduled for release until Monday, local union officials predicted that the contract would be easily ratified.
The union's previous, three-year agreements with G.M., DaimlerChrysler and the Ford Motor Company expired on Sept. 14, but the union had agreed to keep workers on the job while it negotiated with each company.
The U.A.W. agreement with DaimlerChrysler and a pact by the Canadian Auto Workers union with Ford, which was reached last Tuesday, both called for wage increases that exceeded the inflation rate by nearly 3 percent. The contract also limited how quickly DaimlerChrysler could shrink its work force through attrition, a provision that might cause some problems for G.M.
If G.M. accepted an identical provision, it could continue downsizing but with some limits on how quickly it did so. Another issue involved the extent to which workers at G.M.'s former auto parts division, which was spun off in May, would be able to return to jobs at G.M.
Labor relations between G.M. and the U.A.W. have improved since last year's strike for several reasons. G.M. appears to have suffered a small but permanent loss of market share because of the strike, making neither the company nor the union eager to repeat the experience.
The American auto market is booming, leaving every auto maker straining to keep up with production and auto workers reluctant to risk their profit-sharing checks on another walkout. And G.M. has revamped its approach to labor negotiations.
G.M. strongly criticized union leaders during last year's strike in an unsuccessful effort to convince employees that the work stoppage was a mistake. After the strike, G.M. brought Gary L. Cowger, a quiet-spoken American executive who had been running Opel, a German subsidiary, back to the United States and gave him unusually broad authority as group vice president for labor relations. His predecessor, Gerald A. Knechtel, had been only a vice president and had less authority.
Mr. Cowger, who likes to talk about his grandchildren and who spent the first 13 years of his career working his way up through supervisory positions at a G.M. assembly plant in Kansas City, Kan., has gotten along well with U.A.W. leaders, said one union official.
But a deal with the U.A.W. would not guarantee a strike-free autumn for G.M., which must still reach an agreement with the Canadian auto workers.
The Canadian union said it wanted G.M. and DaimlerChrysler to sign contracts similar to Ford's, which has already been ratified.
The union said it would next seek a labor contract with DaimlerChrysler, setting a strike deadline of Oct. 5.
Basil Hargrove, president of the Canadian union, said he was leaving G.M. for last partly because those negotiations posed the toughest issues, most involving job security.
"We have an incredible amount of problems at G.M.," Mr. Hargrove said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (90%); DAI (FRA) (84%); DAI (BIT) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (65%); KANSAS, USA (65%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG FORD MOTOR CO (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%); DAIMLER AG (84%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (65%); KANSAS, USA (65%); FLINT, MI, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES LABOR UNIONS (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); STRIKES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (73%); INFLATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); MARKET SHARE (66%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999



611 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Russia Hotly Protests Audits Demanded by I.M.F. for Loans

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
Only hours after hearing Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers describe the new conditions Russia must meet to receive continued international aid, the head of the country's central bank said his country was "being treated like whipping boys" by Washington and suggested that he would resist intensive audits of Russia's books.
The comments by Viktor Gerashchenko, a wily veteran of Russia's shifting political scene who also ran the Soviet Union's central bank, marked the first time that Russia has openly and harshly criticized the extensive new auditing demanded by Washington before lending new money to Moscow through the International Monetary Fund. 
 But American officials said Mr. Gerashchenko's outburst -- in which he suggested that the new restrictions on lending to Russia were chiefly a product of Washington politics -- was in sharp contrast to his behavior during the meeting with Mr. Summers. Several suggested that he may have been playing to a domestic audience in Russia, where the accusations of money laundering and the demands for new audits have smacked of more American interference in the running of Russia's chaotic economy.
His criticism of the United States also runs counter to the message that Russia's Foreign Minister, Igor S. Ivanov, has been delivering here. Mr. Ivanov was asked by Russia's President, Boris N. Yeltsin, to reassure American officials, news media and other groups that Moscow is strongly interested in cracking down on corruption and welcomes international scrutiny.
"It's fair to say," a senior Administration official said, "that they don't have their talking points in full agreement."
In contrast to Mr. Ivanov's promises of cooperation, Mr. Gerashchenko, speaking to reporters after meeting with Mr. Summers, said he was already providing the fund with as much information as it needs.
"We can improve the technology once," he said, "but why should we have to account for everything every day? Do we have to publish our accounts in the gutter press or at official councils?"
Among the American demands, which were incorporated in a financial communique issued by the finance ministers of the Group of 7 industrialized nations on Saturday night, Russia must agree to quarterly audits of its central bank reserves, the public money that is a key measure of the Government's fiscal health and a major factor in the value of the ruble.
The fund was surprised by the discovery last year that the central bank was linked to an offshore investment company in the Channel Island of Jersey and that the bank had misreported its asset levels to the fund. The offshore company, Fimaco, was acquired by a subsidiary of the central bank during Mr. Gerashchenko's previous tenure as central bank chief, although the Fimaco operations that drew most attention to date fell during the 1994-98 period when he did not head the central bank.
Mr. Summers continued his public warnings to Russia today, repeating the line he took at the opening of a Congressional inquiry last week into corruption, money laundering and the still-unsubstantiated charges that I.M.F. funds had been illegally diverted.
"We are concerned about Russia," Mr. Summers said. "The capacity of the I.M.F. and the World Bank to help bring about effective policies depends on the will and capacity of Russian authorities and the Russian people to carry forward reforms in their national interests." He specifically said it was "critical" that Russia develop "adequate safeguards to ensure that funds provided by" the bank and the fund "are used for their intended purpose."
As the two men sparred from a distance, Russian officials on the sidelines of the annual meetings here of the World Bank and the I.M.F. said they did not know when they would receive an additional dose of aid that had been scheduled for release this month. It is essentially money that will be used to pay back the fund for interest due on past loans -- in this case, about $370 million -- and as an additional safeguard the money will never actually enter Russia. Instead, the I.M.F. will transfer it from one fund to another; it is akin to getting a loan from a bank to pay one's mortgage from that bank for the month.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHANNEL ISLANDS (79%); JERSEY (51%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND CHANNEL ISLAND PROPERTIES (51%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHANNEL ISLANDS (79%); JERSEY (51%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MONEY LAUNDERING; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); POLITICS (76%); CORRUPTION (72%); MONEY LAUNDERING (72%); TRENDS (71%); NEWS REPORTING (69%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; GERASHCHENKO, VIKTOR; SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (SEC) LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999



612 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Scramble To Find Holiday Help;
Surging Economy Contributes To Shortage of Seasonal Workers

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
In the elegant Trustees Room on the sixth floor of the Museum of Modern Art, 10 blond wood tables and 20 chrome-and-leather armchairs were carefully arranged to allow for intimate conversation. The rich smell of freshly brewed coffee wafted in from the antechamber, where bottles of Italian mineral water were lined up next to wineglasses and a golden heap of cookies.
This setting, so suitable for wooing art world bigwigs and financial backers, was created on Tuesday evening to entice a group that is almost as important to the museum's finances and a great deal harder to attract these days: holiday store clerks. 
The museum was having a job fair, trying to find a dozen or so temporary salespeople for its bookstore and for its design store across 53d Street, which is to reopen Oct. 4 after renovations. "It's more of a challenge to find these people," said James D. Gundell, president of the museum's retail operation. "They have a lot of opportunities."
Seasonal salespeople, the backbone of New York City's Christmas shop-a-thon, have been in increasingly short supply in recent years. And retailers fear that 1999 will be the toughest recruiting season ever.
"The paucity of qualified workers is greater now than it has been in a long time," said Kurt Barnard, publisher of Barnard's Retail Trend Report. "People are looking for better jobs, permanent jobs." And they are finding them.
The city's booming economy, its declining unemployment rate, and the surge in store openings in Manhattan have combined to create high anxiety among retailers of all sorts, from high-priced boutiques to drugstore chains to cultural institutions. Even the Salvation Army is worrying about recruiting enough bell ringers for its Christmas kettles.
While the labor shortage causes headaches for retailers -- and may induce irritation in shoppers -- it seems to guarantee happy holidays for students, part-time workers and other New Yorkers who, for one reason or another, are looking for temporary work.
"I'm more optimistic than I've ever been before," said Seth Chodosh, 45, who just moved back to Brooklyn from San Francisco. Mr. Chodosh, who has worked in publishing and retailing, said he was looking for a holiday job while settling in, and would later seek a permanent job.
Store managers are stepping up their hiring efforts, starting ever earlier in the year. (Tiffany began running holiday help-wanted ads in August.) They are guaranteeing every applicant an interview, holding out the hope of permanent employment after Christmas, and hiring people with no retailing experience.
Employee discounts are becoming increasingly generous; 30 percent is now common. Museum stores promise free passes. And Century 21, the discount department store near the World Trade Center, for the first time is offering a $300 gift certificate for new employees who stay through December.
What does not seem to be rising much is pay. Job seekers report that $8 an hour is the going rate, though some workers without experience make the minimum wage, $5.15.
Some stores prefer to stress how much salespeople can make on commission: Bergdorf Goodman, the elegant emporium where a handbag can cost as much as a compact car, estimates that its seasonal employees can make as much as $25 an hour if they are successful sellers.
"It's getting tougher to find people, the economy being so good," said Bill Brobston, general manager and senior vice president of Bergdorf Goodman, which is looking for roughly 100 seasonal employees. "Spend the Holiday Season in Style," suggest the store's help-wanted ads, which promise that the store offers "a more reasonable schedule than our competitors."
Smaller retailers, too, have trouble finding enough help.
Erwin Pearl, the jewelry company with a boutique on Fifth Avenue, is looking for three or four people to start work next month and stay through January. Angela Hinton, the assistant vice president of human resources who has been hiring seasonal help for seven years, said that she gets only a dozen or so resumes now, down from as many as 30, and that the applicants tend to be less educated than before.
"There's a lot of competition now, in terms of salary, benefits and little perks," she said.
Even at its easiest, seasonal hiring is a big job. Since the recession ended in 1992, retailers in New York City have tended to add about 30,000 people to their payrolls between August and December, according to data compiled by the New York State Department of Labor.
That is because many stores make more than 20 percent of their sales in the holiday period, according to the National Retail Federation. For jewelry stores, the percentage is much higher, but even drugstores' sales pick up late in the year.
And 1999 promises to be a good year. Consumers have been spending money hand over fist, confounding economists and raising concerns at the Federal Reserve, which is on the lookout for signs that the economy is overheating.
The Fed is also keeping a close eye on labor shortages around the country; its economic survey released on Wednesday noted ominously that "retailers in the Boston, Kansas City and New York districts reported that they cannot find enough staff to fill vacancies."
That is certainly true at Duane Reade, the ubiquitous drugstore chain, which has about 100 empty job slots right now. Available people with "retail experience are nonexistent, so we're adapting and going outside of the industry," said Anthony J. Cuti, the company's chairman.
Part of Duane Reade's problem is that it has been expanding rapidly, as have many other retailers. The Gap is opening so many Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy stores that its appetite for store workers appears to be infinite.
The American Museum of Natural History is looking for store cashiers -- along with security guards, custodians, telephone operators and other workers -- for its new planetarium, Rose Center for Earth and Space, which is to open in February. With 250 slots to fill by December, in time for training, the museum has been holding its first job fairs ever, said Barbara Dwyer Gunn, senior vice president for operations and government relations.
Indeed, employers in general plan to hire people in the fourth quarter of the year, according to a survey by Manpower, a staffing company. It found that 34 percent of businesses in the New York City region -- and 50 percent in Manhattan -- planned to add staff members in the next three months, both of which are big increases from last year.
All of this offers a lot of opportunity to people who might otherwise work seasonal jobs but want permanent ones.
Lynette Richardson, 40, of Brooklyn, for example, works as a cashier at Giants Stadium during the football season but said she was looking for "something on a consistent basis." She has been filling out a lot of job applications lately, she said, adding that this seems to be a good time to be looking for a year-round job.
New York is unusual in that so many of its retailing jobs are full time; in many parts of the country, store work is almost always part time. But by New York standards, the pay is low. The average retail salesman or saleswoman in the city makes less than $21,000 a year, according to Federal statistics, less than half the citywide average of roughly $47,000 for all occupations.
It might seem odd, with all the money flowing into stores, that retailers do not offer higher pay to attract workers, but industry experts say the fattening of paychecks is rare. That is because retailing companies are under pressure from their shareholders to keep costs down and profits up.
New Yorkers who are looking for holiday employment say they are well aware that the pay is low and the work is hard. But they have their reasons, as several people at the Museum of Modern Art job fair explained.
Some, like Veronica Ledford, 23, are just looking for a little extra cash for Christmas gifts. "I want to guarantee that when I go home, I'm not empty-handed," said Ms. Ledford, a freelance graphic designer from Lynchburg, Va., who keeps body and soul together by working at a bank.
Others, like Cheryl Traylor, 42, are returning to the job market after an absence. Ms. Traylor, who lives in the Bronx, used to work at J. C. Penney before the company left the city; she kept her hand in by working as a freelance artist while raising two children, now 8 and 15.
Members of the museum staff interviewed 51 people, and the references of 29 are being checked, said Joe Meny, general manager of the retail operation. He is pushing his staff to move quickly to check references and make offers; last year, after its first job fair, the museum offered jobs to 20 people, but only 6 or 7 took the offers.
Mr. Meny said he would like to hire at least that many this year, "but I'd be thrilled to get more than that."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Retailers fear that 1999 will be the toughest recruiting season ever for seasonal workers. The Museum of Modern Art held a job fair to try to find a dozen or so temporary sales clerks for its bookstore and design store. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. B6); Some stores are trying to lure holiday workers with advertisements that promise benefits like gift certificates. (pg. B1)
 
Graph: "Santa's Helpers"
Retail employment, including holiday season hiring have risen in New York City.
Graph tracks the city's retail trade employment figures, since 1991. (Source: New York City Department of Labor)(pg. B1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTMAS SHOP (68%); BERGDORF GOODMAN INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CHRISTMAS; SHORTAGES; LABOR SEASONAL WORKERS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (88%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (88%); TRENDS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (74%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BOOKSTORES (69%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (69%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (66%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE SETH CHODOSH (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999



613 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: DROP IN RECRUITS PUSHES PENTAGON TO NEW STRATEGY

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
With more and more young people choosing their challenges in college and their rewards in civilian jobs, a serious shortage of military recruits is forcing the Pentagon to revamp its strategy for filling its ranks.
And some of the Pentagon's own consultants say the armed forces have not yet faced up to the severity of the recruiting gap and need to do still more. 
 When the fiscal year ends on Thursday, the Army will fall short of its recruiting goal for the second year in a row, signing up nearly 7,000 fewer enlistees than the 74,500 it needs to maintain its force at current levels. It is the worst shortfall since 1979, when the Army was recruiting twice as many recruits as it does now.
The Air Force, too, is expected to miss its target of 33,800 by 1,500 to 1,800 people, despite having paid for commercial television advertising this past year for the first time.
The Navy, which fell 12,000 recruits short last year, may just squeak by, but only after lowering its goal from last year and accepting thousands more recruits who never made it through high school, but earned only general equivalency diplomas.
Only the Marine Corps, the smallest force and the one with arguably the strongest traditional appeal to prospective recruits, has kept pace.
The recruiting shortfall has prompted growing concern at the Pentagon, where officials are scrambling to reverse the trend. They stop short, though, of calling it a crisis.
The Army, like all the services, has increased its advertising and raised its signing bonuses: recruits can get $6,000 just for signing up before Thursday, on top of other bonuses. It has also increased the money it offers recruits for college tuition, now as much as $50,000, up from $40,000.
And in a striking break with tradition, the Army has sent hundreds of fresh young soldiers on recruiting assignments back to their hometowns in the hope they can persuade others like themselves to join.
Pvt. Dennis L. Neal, who recently undertook such a mission in a tough neighborhood in the nation's capital, where he used to live, has barely been in the Army long enough to know if he likes it. His entire military experience so far has been a couple of months of basic training and truck-driving school. Now the Army has turned to him to do what veteran sergeants are hard pressed to accomplish these days: find new recruits.
"What I tell them," Private Neal, who is 21, said the other day, as he stood with colleagues from one of Washington's two recruiting stations at a street music festival only a few blocks from where he grew up, "is that it ain't so bad."
Raising an all-volunteer military has never been easy, but the difficulties with recruiting have been mounting in recent years as the economy courses along and college becomes an attainable goal for more young people than ever. Even as Congress and the Pentagon pour millions of dollars more into advertising and marketing, many officials fear that the problem may only get worse.
In a report last week, a Federal advisory commission studying national security in the 21st century included recruiting shortfalls as one of the threats the American military is expected to face. The commission, headed by former Senators Gary Hart and Warren B. Rudman, cited surveys showing a sharp drop in young men, especially young black men, who even consider joining.
"It is not clear how the military establishment, then, will sustain the volunteer force over the next generation and, particularly, how it will manage to recruit and retain enough highly skilled personnel to meet the increasing technical needs of an advanced military," the commission said.
Next month the Army plans to inaugurate a pilot program to pay 6,000 high school dropouts to study for G.E.D.'s so they can qualify to join the active force or the reserves. Another program will let prospective recruits sign up, but put off basic training for up to two years to finish college, to tap the growing number of young men and women who go straight to college after high school.
"There are so many unexploited opportunities that we haven't taken advantage of to improve recruiting," the Secretary of the Army, Louis Caldera, said in an interview.
And yet even Mr. Caldera warned that the Army needed to reverse the waning interest in military service among the first generation of young people whose fathers came of age after the draft ended in 1973.
"If unabated," he said, "it might not make a difference what kinds of resources you're plowing into recruiting."
Officials at the Pentagon attribute poor recruiting to a variety of forces that have collided at once.
The pool of young men and women between the ages of 18 and 22 -- the optimum age for recruits -- has shrunk to roughly 21 million, 5 million fewer than in 1980. Making matters more difficult for the military, the nation's economic boom has created the lowest unemployment rate in years, creating abundant job opportunities for those who might otherwise be interested in enlisting
"We are in a very tough environment right now," Gen. Henry H. Shelton, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the Senate's Armed Services Committee this month.
But there is evidence that the problems may lie with the Pentagon as much as with economic and demographic trends.
Over the summer, Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen hired two prominent Washington political consultants -- Carter D. Eskew, a Democrat, and Michael R. Murphy, a Republican -- to review the Pentagon's recruiting strategy and the $300 million its spends on advertisements. Their preliminary findings, presented to Mr. Cohen and other senior officials last month, were sharply critical of the services' recruiting effort.
The Army, Navy and Air Force have failed to articulate a clear image and purpose to prospective recruits, they told the officials. Only the Marine Corps has a distinct image to sell, they said.
"The other services need to find themselves, post cold war," Rudy de Leon, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, said.
The consultants also recommended that the services conduct more thorough research into the attitudes and habits of the young, and rely less on traditional approaches to television advertising like buying time during basketball or football games that reach only a certain segment of young people.
They also said the Pentagon increasingly needed to focus its pitch on "influencers" -- parents, teachers and coaches, many of whom appear to be discouraging young people from considering the military because either they never served or they have lingering hostility from the Vietnam era.
The Army has already taken the consultants' critiques to heart. One of the first casualties may be the jingle that the Army has used for the better part of two decades -- "Be All That You Can Be" -- even though Advertising Age magazine recently ranked it as one of the most memorable of the century.
"There's a lot of value in that, because it's very recognizable," Mr. Caldera said. "But the question we have to ask is, Is it the right message for the young people you are trying to attract?"
Others have said more drastic measures are needed.
Charles C. Moskos, a sociologist at Northwestern University who served on the national security advisory panel, has been calling on the services to offer shorter enlistments, of 15 or 18 months, something the Pentagon says wastes money spent on training. Mr. Moskos, though, argues that shorter stints could be tailored to college students interested in serving on missions like those in Bosnia or Kosovo that are straining the Army's resources.
"Call it junior year abroad," he said.
But Representative Steve Buyer, the Indiana Republican who heads the House's subcommittee on military personnel, said the problem was the missions themselves, a complaint echoed by the leading Republican Presidential candidate, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, in a speech last week.
"We're fooling ourselves if we believe we can solve the problem with more G.E.D. programs or more money for ads," Mr. Buyer said. "What we need is a change in foreign policy."
In the meantime, the burden has fallen on the Army's recruiters, who put in long days trolling for recruits in an ever-dwindling pool of prospects. Each month the recruiting station in Washington on Florida Avenue is supposed to enlist 12 or 13 recruits. On average, the station's 10 recruiters have been getting 6 to 8.
First Sgt. Beth Ann Lockett, a 12-year veteran, said the hardest part was finding people who even qualify, let alone show interest. She has to turn away single mothers, people who score too low on the military's aptitude test and those who have used drugs recently -- not uncommon traits among young people, especially in poorer neighborhoods. Those convicted of serious crimes are also disqualified, though she hastened to add, "We can work with legal problems."
Most of the recruiters' time is spent on the phone chasing down leads, or setting up shop in places where young people gather, as Sergeant Lockett and her crew of soldiers, including Private Neal, did the other evening at a radio station's street festival in Potomac Gardens, a gritty housing project in Southeast Washington.
As hip-hop music blared, though, the recruiters had little to do. Almost no one over the age of 10 paid much attention to the brochures neatly stacked on two rickety folding tables. Finally, after more than an hour, the first prospect appeared: Damall Kellem, a 17-year-old senior in the Class of 2000.
Mr. Kellem took a brochure but said that most young people did not give military service much consideration.
"It's not even in their vocabularies," he said with a shrug and walked off.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Staff Sgt. Joseph Mitchell, a recruiter, spoke with Damall Kellem, 17, at a Washington street fair. Enlistment is down, and for most young people, Mr. Kellem said, the military is "not even in their vocabularies." (Justine Lane for The New York Times)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US AIR FORCE (56%); US NAVY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%); US NAVY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY); ADVERTISING; SHORTAGES; NAVIES; AIR FORCES; ARMIES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; BONUSES ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY RECRUITING (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); NAVIES (78%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); TRENDS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%); TRUCK DRIVERS (67%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (66%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999



614 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9
 
Fearful Chechens Flee Intense Russian Bombing
Thousands of refugees, fleeing days of bombardment by Russian warplanes, clogged the roads out of the breakaway republic of Chechnya. Russia's Defense Minister suggested the fighting might intensify and hinted that Russian military might follow up its air strikes with a ground thrust against rebel sanctuaries within Chechnya. A1
 
Japan Action on Yen's Rise
The head of the Bank of Japan strongly hinted that he was prepared to reverse course and act to halt a three-month rise in the value of the yen, before it chokes off Japan's fragile economic recovery and sets off further clashes with the United States. A1 

Russian Attacks Audit Plan
The director of Russia's central bank said that his country was "being treated like whipping boys" by Washington and that suggested he would resist intensive audits of his country's books, only hours after hearing Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers describe the new conditions Russia must meet to receive continued international aid. It was the first time that Russia has openly and harshly criticized the new auditing that the United States is insisting upon. A8
 
Yeltsin's Wife Defends Family
The wife of President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia, trying to dispel mounting allegations of corruption, delivered an emotional defense of her family in a rare television interview. It was the first time that a member of the Yeltsin family has addressed the nation on charges that the President and his youngest daughter received kickbacks from the Mabetex construction firm. A8
 
Albright Warns Indonesia
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright met in New York with the man expected to lead an independent East Timor and warned Indonesia that it risks losing American aid and investment unless it protects refugees. A6
 
Pinochet Hearings to Begin
Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former dictator of Chile, will begin finding out this week whether he must go from Britain to Spain to face charges of crimes against humanity. Hearings starting today will determine whether the extradition application is in order and whether the crimes it lists are extraditable offenses. A5
 
Aftershock Kills 3
Taiwan suffered a major aftershock yesterday that killed at least 3 people and injured 58 others, destroyed buildings and roads already weakened from the devastating earthquake on Tuesday, and sent thousands of residents scurrying for safety. The aftershock was centered about six miles east of Sun Moon Lake in Nantou County. A6
 
NATIONAL A12-16
 
Preparing the Aging For Health Care Choices
The Federal Government this month is mounting the biggest public education campaign in Medicare's 34-year history, mailing handbooks to 39 million Medicare beneficiaries to try to guide them through the increasingly complicated world of health care. It will also offer help by telephone and Internet. The campaign is intended to aid an aging population that, experts say, is often ill-equipped to handle the complicated health care choices envisioned by Congress. A1
 
Unfilled Ranks in the Military
The Army, Air Force and Navy all are expected to miss their recruitment goals when the fiscal year ends on Thursday. A1
 
Quayle Ending His Campaign
Former Vice President Dan Quayle, convinced that he would not be able to raise enough money to keep pace with Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, has decided to drop out of the race for President, one of his senior officials said. A16
 
An Issue of Bush's Absence
Steve Forbes, the multimillionaire publisher and candidate for the Republican Presidential nomination, used the absence of Gov. George W. Bush from the California Republican convention to argue that Mr. Bush and the party establishment are inappropriately complacent. Many people at the gathering seemed unconcerned by Mr. Bush's absence. A16
 
A former Speaker of the Texas Legislature said that during the Vietnam War he personally contacted a general in the Texas Air National Guard to help George W. Bush attain a pilot's slot in a Guard unit upon his graduation from college. A16
 
G.M. Labor Pact Expected Soon
General Motors and the United Automobile Workers hope to reach a new, four-year labor contract within the next several days, officials on both sides said. Negotiators worked through the weekend to mold an agreement similar to the one reached by the union with DaimlerChrysler on Sept. 16. A14
 
Bomb Waste Baffles Experts
Nuclear bomb waste is growing like a giant souffle in a tank buried in the desert near Richland, Wash. Workers have stopped the growth, at least temporarily, by lancing the crust, and are rushing to buy more time to find a long-term solution. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Encephalitis Outbreak Gets a Closer Look
Having discovered that they have most likely been looking for the wrong virus, public health officials are investigating whether as many as eight more people than previously reported have died in New York City's mysterious encephalitis outbreak. In addition, blood and spinal fluid samples from 77 people who tested negative for St. Louis encephalitis will now be re-examined for the new virus, identified as the West Nile virus, or a close variant known as the Kunjin virus. B1
 
Opening Night Union Rally
Hundreds of people from a dozen unions are planning to rally in a park across from the Metropolitan Opera house, shortly before the curtain rises for opening night. Their goal is to embarrass the Met and its patrons so that they will pressure Restaurant Associates, the contractor at the Met, to recognize Local 100 of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International Union. B6
 
A Wedding Day Killing
A bride-to-be was shot dead in front of her family by a former boyfriend who walked uninvited into her home in Ridgefield, N.J., as the family was about to leave for the wedding, the authorities said. The former boyfriend, Augustin Garcia, was arrested at the scene. B1
 
Fire at Apartment Building
A fire that began in a brownstone engulfed a neighboring seven-story apartment building in upper Manhattan, injuring 45 people and leaving several dozen people homeless. The fire also sent plumes of charcoal-gray smoke into the sky that could be seen for miles. B3
 
ARTS E1-8
 
Singing for the Record Books
The tenor Placido Domingo tonight is scheduled to break a record set by Enrico Caruso in 1920: opening-night performances at the Metropolitan Opera House. Singing Canio in "Pagliacci," Caruso's signature role, Mr. Domingo will open the opera house's season for the 18th time and begin his 31st season with the Met. A1
 
OBITUARIES A17
 
Judith Campbell Exner
The woman who claimed in a 1988 interview in People magazine that she had been having an affair with John F. Kennedy when he was elected President, she was 65. A17
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-20
 
A First for On-Line Retailing
Nike will let Fogdog Sports, an on-line sporting goods dealer, sell its full product line. It will be the first time any big athletic shoemaker has allowed a Web-based store to sell its goods. As part of the deal, Nike will get warrants to acquire 12 percent of Fogdog's shares. C1
 
Respecting an Internet Resume
Thomas Rogers, the president of NBC cable who expanded the NBC network into the cable and Internet markets, will be named chief executive of Primedia today. C1
 
Counterbid for Natwest
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group is said to be preparing a competing offer for National Westminster Bank, which is based in Britain. Executives briefed on the plan said it would be worth about $41 billion -- nearly $7 billion more than the hostile bid for Natwest announced on Friday by the Bank of Scotland. C2
Stocks Higher in Tokyo
Stocks were trading higher in Tokyo today. At midday, the Nikkei was up 132.37 points, or 0.78 percent, at 17,004.10. (Bloomberg News)
 
Business Digest C1
 
SPORTSMONDAY D1-10
 
U.S. Storms Back in Ryder Cup
The Americans staged the biggest comeback ever in golf's most compelling team competition to win the Ryder Cup back from Europe with a final tally of 14 1/2-13 1/2. Trailing 10-6 heading into the final 12 singles matches, the United States won eight of the day's rounds. A1
 
Mets' Slide Continues
The Mets lost again, 3-2, to the Phillies, completing a wearying six-loss road trip. Meanwhile, the Reds won, taking a one-game lead over the Mets in the wild-card race. D1
 
EDITORIAL A18-19
 
Editorials: Soldiers in business; oily deal in the Senate; Dudley Clendinen on the beautification of America.
 
Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E4
 
Public Lives A12
 
Crossword E8
 
TV Listings E7
 
Metro Diary B2
 
Weather D8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); INDONESIA (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); INDONESIA (92%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); CHILE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); MEDICARE (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); JAPANESE YEN (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); BRIBERY (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); EARTHQUAKES (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (65%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); AGING TRENDS (60%); AGING (60%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999



615 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: A Sparkling New Penn Station Gets a Push With $160 Million in U.S. Loans

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Providing a large piece of financial support for a new Pennsylvania Station, Federal officials are to announce today that the project has been selected to receive $160 million in loans through a new Congressional program for transportation improvements.
The loans, to be announced at the World Trade Center by senior officials of the Federal Department of Transportation, could provide a critical step forward for the project, which would convert the James A. Farley Building, the Beaux-Arts main post office on Eighth Avenue, into the new station. The project has been widely endorsed by preservationists and city officials as a means of reclaiming some of the grandeur of the old Pennsylvania Station, which was demolished 36 years ago. Advocates say it would also give the city a more advanced terminal for Amtrak train service. 
 While the financial assistance through the Congressional program, authorized under the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 1997, would provide only part of the estimated $750 million cost of the project, state and Federal officials said the loans would provide a needed financial and political lift for the plan.
President Clinton, in a statement prepared for today's presentation ceremony, described the Congressional act that provided for the loans as "a catalyst for creating jobs and continuing our nation's economic growth." The President visited the Farley Building in May to announce his support for the rail terminal project.
Besides senior representatives of the Transportation Department, officials expected to attend today's announcement include Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who has been the project's most outspoken advocate for years, and Senator Bob Graham of Florida, who was a co-sponsor of the transportation finance act.
Charles A. Gargano, the senior economic adviser to Gov. George E. Pataki and the chairman of Pennsylvania Station Redevelopment Corporation, said in an interview that the Federal loans would "fill a huge gap" in paying for the project.
The Federal financing, to be extended at interest rates below those normally paid to banks or holders of municipal bonds, includes a $140 million loan and a $20 million line of credit. Mr. Gargano, whose redevelopment corporation was formed in 1996 to oversee the project with commitments of $75 million from the state and $25 million from the city, said the Federal loan package would make it easier to raise more money through the sale of municipal bonds.
Even though all the necessary financing is not in place, Mr. Gargano said the renovation of the Farley Building would begin next year and be completed in 2003.
Under the plan, the United States Postal Service has agreed to vacate about one-third of its space in the 1.4 million-square-foot building, which was designed as a sister to Pennsylvania Station and opened in 1913. The original Pennsylvania Station, directly across Eighth Avenue on the site of what is now Madison Square Garden, was completed in 1911 and demolished in 1963, provoking such impassioned protest that it remains a rallying point for preservationists.
President Clinton's visit to the Farley Building corresponded with the release of architectural drawings by the firm Skidmore, Owings and Merrill, of a plan to renovate the interior of the building as a railroad terminal concourse enclosed in steel and glass, with access to Amtrak platforms along tracks that already run beneath the building.
The final price for the project remains to be determined. Mr. Gargano and other officials acknowledged in recent months that the budget was being inflated by a construction boom in New York City, which has pushed up the cost of labor and materials. With many of the bills for architectural designs and other preliminary work already paid, Mr. Gargano said in May that the remaining budget was $484 million, but he revised that figure on Friday to $550 million.
Proponents of the project are seeking other contributions, including a $60 million Federal grant that President Clinton has said he would ask Congress to authorize before the end of the year.
In announcing the project's financing under the 1997 act, Federal officials said they would also use today's ceremony in Manhattan to designate four other transportation projects across the nation that are to receive loans.
Those projects are a nine-mile toll road to be built between San Diego and the Mexican border, which is to receive $127 million in loans; road improvements and a "people mover" system at Miami International Airport, which is to receive $436 million in loans; a rapid transit system under construction in San Juan, P.R., which is to receive $300 million in loans, and the Metrorail system in Washington, which is to receive a $600 million loan guarantee for improvements. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (51%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); PENNSYLVANIA STATION (NYC) TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); TRAINS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (74%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); CITIES (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); JOB CREATION (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999



616 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Ecuador to Default on Debt Backed by U.S.

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: QUITO, Ecuador, Sept. 26

 BODY:
Ecuador will default on payment of millions of dollars of debt backed by the United States, President Jamil Mahuad announced tonight.
Last month, Ecuador chose to delay a $98 million interest payment on its Brady bond debt for 30 days. It had until Tuesday to make the payment or become the first country ever to default on a Brady bond debt. 
 Brady bonds, named after former United States Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, were created to resolve the Latin American debt crisis of the 1980's. They are partly backed by Treasury securities.
In a televised address, Mr. Mahuad said his country would only pay interest on the bonds that are not guaranteed by the United States Treasury. He said Ecuador would pay "a little less than half" of the $98 million interest payment.
International lenders and creditors have been fixated on Ecuador's economy. Although the country does not rank among the region's largest economies, some fear a default on the once-sacrosanct Brady bonds could spark a tumble in emerging bond markets.
Ecuador had been working on proposals to restructure its entire Brady bond debt of $6 billion, and was preparing to present strategies for foreign debt restructuring this week during the annual International Monetary Fund meeting in Washington.
In another economic development, Colombia announced that its peso would be allowed to float freely against the dollar, Reuters reported.
The move, another blow to an economy already reeling, came at the end of a week in which the bank sold more than $400 million in precious foreign reserves in a vain bid to defend the embattled peso from speculative attack. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ECUADOR (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR; COLOMBIA; UNITED STATES (96%); ECUADOR (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CREDIT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; FOREIGN AID; DEFAULTING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (68%); 

PERSON: MAHUAD, JAMIL (PRES); LASSO, GUILLERMO (MIN) NICHOLAS BRADY (92%); JAMIL MAHUAD (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999



617 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: JAPAN GIVES HINT THAT IT WILL ACT TO HALT YEN'S RISE

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26

 BODY:
The head of the Bank of Japan strongly hinted today that he was prepared to reverse course and act to halt a three-month-long rise in the value of the Japanese yen before it chokes off Japan's fragile economic recovery and provokes further clashes with the United States.
In early trading in Australia and Asia, the vaguely worded announcement from Masaru Hayami, governor of the Bank of Japan, and a communique issued on Saturday night by the finance ministers of the Group of 7 largest industrialized nations proved enough to strengthen the dollar slightly and weaken the yen. At midmorning on Monday in Tokyo, the dollar was trading at 104.98-105.00 yen, up from 104.09 at the Friday close in New York. 
 Although he denied he was changing course, Mr. Hayami's statement appeared to mark a full retreat from the position the bank took less than a week ago, when it defied Japanese politicians and Washington by refusing to stop the rise in the yen's value.
The behind-the-scenes struggle over Japan's monetary policy dominated this weekend's opening of the annual meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, which are also focusing on corruption in Russia. Articles, page A8. A new arrangement was also agreed to that would revalue 14 million ounces of the I.M.F.'s gold reserves to pay off some of the debts of the world's poorest nations.
Mr. Hayami's comments today were important in part because Wall Street reacted badly to moves last week by the Bank of Japan. Investors feared that more expensive Japanese goods could help set off inflation in the United States, as consumers pay more for Toyotas and Sony electronics, among other goods. That, in turn, could convince the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates, slowing the economy.
As a result, the future of the American stock markets seemed increasingly dependent on the decisions of Japan's central bank, an institution that operates by its own rules and market rationale.
Today, as Mr. Hayami seemed by turns to want to explain the bank's new thinking and to insist nothing was changing, he issued a statement saying that "the bank is prepared to use the flexibility it has in the context of the present monetary policy stance to respond appropriately and timely to developments in the economy as well as financial markets, including the foreign exchange market."
The Group of 7 ministers, in a statement last night, put the onus on Japan to solve the problems stemming from the surprising strength of the yen. Only if Japan acts to loosen further what the World Bank already considers a dangerously loose monetary policy -- interest rates are at zero in Japan -- would the other countries consider stepping in and intervening in the currency markets to weaken the yen, the statement suggested. And today, as traders went to work in Australia and Tokyo, they were watching every delphic utterance of Mr. Hayami.
Less closely followed was a decision announced late today in which the fund said that 14 million ounces from its gold reserves would be used to relieve debt, but not -- as originally planned -- by selling them on the open market. That suggestion had drawn strong objections from lawmakers in gold-producing parts of the United States and from countries like South Africa.
Instead, the World War II-era gold is now being revalued at current prices, and then, through bookkeeping sleight-of-hand, used by the poor countries to repay their loans.
A week ago Mr. Hayami said he would not adjust the country's monetary policy simply to control foreign exchange rates. That, he said, is how Japan got into trouble in the early 1990's.
Ever since those statements, the yen had continued to strengthen, making Japanese exports like cars and electronics more expensive, and thus less competitive, on world markets. At a news conference here this afternoon, Mr. Hayami, speaking in Japanese, said that he had been "misunderstood" by the markets and by major governments around the world.
"Our policy of appropriate and timely response to developments in the economy and financial markets was not understood by the Group of 7," he said. "Now they understand."
Other officials at the meetings say that it is Mr. Hayami who now understands that the yen's rise could choke off the country's recovery and thus hurt both Tokyo and Washington.
The United States has been the world's only real engine of economic growth in recent years, paying for this with a huge trade deficit as it sucks in the rest of what the world manufactures. Unless Japan recovers, the thinking goes, that deficit will not be reduced by much.
A weaker dollar and a stronger yen would ordinarily be good news for American exporters. But in this case, there are doubts that Japanese consumers will stop saving and start buying again unless they fear the onset of modest inflation -- exactly what pumping more money into the economy could create.
So the finance ministers meeting here on Saturday hammered out language to try to sow doubt in the minds of currency traders over whether the yen would be allowed to appreciate further. "We share Japan's concern about the potential impact of the yen's appreciation for the Japanese economy and the world economy," the statement said.
Mr. Hayami, who said last week that controlling foreign exchange rates was "not an aim of Bank of Japan monetary policy," began to suggest last night that he was revising his view.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA (92%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN; GROUP OF SEVEN BANK OF JAPAN (90%); SONY ELECTRONICS INC (53%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (73%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN; GROUP OF SEVEN INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (73%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA (92%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS JAPANESE YEN (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BONDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TRENDS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INTEREST RATES (62%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; HAYAMI, MASARU MASARU HAYAMI (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999



618 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 5; Column 2; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: With a Step Back, a Telescope Propels Japan Ahead

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: MAUNA KEA, Hawaii

 BODY:
On the final ascent up this volcanic mountain, the gleaming white housing of Japan's new national telescope, which looks vaguely futuristic with its cylindrical shape, immediately sets it apart from the more traditional domes that sprout nearby in the cold, thin air.
But it is only upon closer inspection of the device, named the Subaru, that one begins to see that the design of the telescope responsible for Japan's great leap forward in deep-space observation commences with what would seem to be a decided step backward: the use of a single huge piece of glass as its primary mirror. 
 Since the completion of the revolutionary 200-inch telescope on Palomar Mountain in 1948, telescope designers have been confronted with a seemingly intractable problem preventing the design of ever larger light-gathering mirrors: the gradual distorting effects of gravity on massive pieces of suspended glass.
Telescope designers in recent years have resorted to a variety of tricks to overcome this problem. For example, the primary mirrors in Subaru's closest neighbors on the mountain, the twin 400-inch Keck telescopes, the two largest in the world, are each made up of many joined segments with a common focus. Several other new telescopes have featured very thin "floppy" mirrors, combined with computer-controlled supports that can constantly adjust the shape of the mirror to compensate for gravity's sag and even atmospheric blur.
Another strategy, being used by the European Southern Observatory for its array of four 320-inch telescopes at La Serena in Chile, is to combine the light from separate telescopes to obtain the resolving power of a vastly larger lens. The Kecks are designed to be so linked eventually.
Japan has long suffered the image of being a nation of scientific followers. In astronomy, for example, the country had long been limited to the use of an 80-inch device built decades ago. But when it came to designing a new telescope, the country's small astronomy establishment shed the follower image and wagered boldly that the magic of the single-mirror approach -- something of a classical ideal among telescope builders -- was far from played out. The result was the Subaru at 8.3 meters wide, about 323 inches. (The name does not indicate a connection to the car company; instead, it is the Japanese name for the constellation Pleiades.)
In pulling off its creation, Japan has applied the nation's exquisite skills in engineering, design, construction and miniaturization in ways that experts say will strongly influence the future course of building very large telescopes.
Among the features that will be looked at most carefully are its flexible, relatively thin, seven-inch-thick mirror and an enclosure that is of a piece with the telescope itself and rotates to change views of the sky. Scientists say that the enclosure design, once criticized for its cost, has already proven its superiority in the critical areas of temperature and wind-flow control.
Finally, there is the system of servo-controlled active optics, which uses 264 motors to adjust the mirror, to correct for minute distortions.
All of this cost Japan $400 million at current exchange rates, or several times the price of the first Keck telescope. But astronomers say that Japanese telescope builders, unlike those in the United States and Europe, had to build virtually everything from scratch, something that must be taken into consideration in evaluating the price.
"Within a couple of years, a conventional wisdom will form as to which approach to big telescope construction is most advantageous and most economical," said Dr. Robert McLaren, interim director of the University of Hawaii's Institute for Astronomy. "Right now, most people expect that the single-lens approach will prove superior."
Even though it is not yet equipped with the devices that astronomers will need to take full advantage of its powers, the Subaru telescope has already exceeded many of its designers' expectations. It has, for example, already broken the resolution record for ground-based telescopes, with the ability to see angular details as small as 0.196 arc seconds, about five times better than conventional telescopes.
When a new adaptive optics system is installed, allowing for correction of atmospheric distortions, the resolution is expected to increase to 0.06 arc seconds. Such sharpness, scientists say, is the equivalent of being able to see a baseball clearly from 180 miles away.
The next generation of space-based telescopes are expected to take decisive advantage of the dark vacuum of space to offer resolution superior to any Earth-bound telescope. For now, though, Subaru's astronomers readily offer side-by-side comparisons of their device's images with those taken by the Hubble Space Telescope, and believe many of their images are clearly better.
The astronomers who will operate Subaru say the telescope's ultra-high resolution, its superb light-gathering capacity and its so-called prime-focus view, which permits the capturing of images of wider sections of the sky than most other telescopes, will make the device a leader in astronomical research. Two particular areas of expected strength are deep-field research and the quest to find other solar systems.
Deep-field research involves collecting information on the darkest, most remote regions of space in an effort to understand the evolution of the universe and predict its future. The search for new planets outside of our solar system, meanwhile, requires the spotting of extremely faint objects that on the scale of the universe are not only distant, but like our own solar system's planets, are relatively tiny.
In an interview during testing of the telescope last March, Subaru's director, Dr. Norio Kaifu, who previously directed research at Japan's large radio telescope at Nobeyama, fairly brimmed with confidence about these capabilities.
"There have been many reports of the discovery of planets outside of our solar system, but no one has yet produced clear images," said Dr. Kaifu. "Clearly this represents demanding work, but we want to show these planets."
Asked what Japanese name might be given to the first planet discovered by Subaru, Dr. Kaifu laughed. "We don't plan to discover only one," he said. "We will find many."
And in making the search, many are betting that the Subaru team will reinvigorate Japan's interest in astronomy, and indeed, its investment in science generally.
"'If you look at the history of Japan, you realize that we imported science from the Western world only about 100 years ago, so it is quite natural that we are behind in many ways," said Dr. Kaifu. "With Subaru we have reached a very high peak, but there is still not much of a base beneath our feet.
"Perhaps our biggest impact will be in encouraging the future scientists of Japan."
 http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Subaru telescope, at top left, Japan's entry in the quest to explore the universe, takes its place among the other powerful telescopes arrayed on Mauna Kea, Hawaii. Humans are dwarfed by the Subaru telescope, which uses one giant piece of glass to capture celestial images. (Photographs by Michael Darden for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (88%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN SOUTHERN OBSERVATORY (54%); EUROPEAN SOUTHERN OBSERVATORY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN SOUTHERN OBSERVATORY (54%); EUROPEAN SOUTHERN OBSERVATORY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (88%); CHILE (79%); HAWAII, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; SUBARU TELESCOPE (HAWAII); TELESCOPES AND OBSERVATORIES OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (89%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); ENGINEERING (76%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



619 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
What Has Happened to Men? An Author Tries to Answer

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI 

 BODY:

STIFFED
The Betrayal of the American Man
By Susan Faludi
Illustrated. 662 pages. William Morrow & Company. $27.50.
In her 1991 best seller, "Backlash: The Undeclared War Against American Women," Susan Faludi argued that "an often ludicrous overreaction to women's modest progress has prevailed" among men. She suggested that many men defined their masculinity in terms of being a "good provider" for their families, and that "if establishing masculinity depends most of all on succeeding as the prime breadwinner, then it is hard to imagine a force more directly threatening to fragile American manhood than the feminist drive for economic equality." During the 1980's, she asserted, "free-floating anxiety over declining wages, insecure employment and overpriced housing" needed a focal point, and "women, especially feminist women, became the all-purpose scapegoats." 
 This didactic and highly simplistic analysis of what Ms. Faludi calls "the American masculinity crisis" has given way in "Stiffed: The Betrayal of the American Man" to a far more nuanced and sympathetic assessment of what has happened to men in the tumultuous decades since World War II. It is Ms. Faludi's contention, laid out in this thoughtful if bloated new book, that many American men feel they have "lost their compass in the world," that compared with their fathers' generation, they feel "less triumphal, less powerful, less confident of making a living."
 Although Ms. Faludi writes that she started this book wondering why men were "so disturbed by the prospect of women's independence," she began to see, as her reporting progressed, that the "gender battle was only a surface manifestation of other struggles," that the sources of men's current disillusionment were deeper and more obscure.
She says she put her "prefigured map" aside and gradually reached the conclusion that men's current predicament stems less from economic uncertainties or advancements made by women than from more fundamental changes in the American culture at large, in particular the shift from a traditional society that valued loyalty, team play and the mastery of a vocation to an "ornamental culture" driven by celebrity and image, "a society drained of context, saturated with a competitive individualism that has been robbed of craft or utility, and ruled by commercial values that revolve around who has the most, the best, the biggest, the fastest."
For Ms. Faludi, this media-driven, ornamental culture -- symbolized by Calvin Klein underwear ads and Details magazine -- subjected men to "the conformism, passivity and consumerist mirror-gazing traditionally held to be feminine," redefining masculinity as "something to drape over the body, not draw from inner resources" and manhood as something to be "displayed, not demonstrated."
Like "Backlash," this book is constructed around a series of interviews, but this time Ms. Faludi's profiles are not used to buttress a pre-established thesis but to explore her subject matter and provide the reader with some sharply observed case studies. Some of the men featured in this book are well known, including Sylvester Stallone and the playwright David Rabe; most of them are not. There are interviews with members of Promise Keepers and members of a support group called Alternatives to Violence. There are profiles of three brothers who grew up amid the gang violence of South Central Los Angeles; a Cleveland Browns fan known as Big Dawg, and a half-dozen porn stars.
Several of the chapters are constructed around pairs of contrasting groups of men. Laid-off workers from the Long Beach naval shipyard in California (which Ms. Faludi portrays as an old-fashioned community that encouraged mentorship and collegiality) and laid-off workers from the McDonnell Douglas plant in Long Beach (depicted as a modern corporate bureaucracy filled with middle managers). Teen-age members of the Spur Posse, the group that became infamous in 1993 for multiple alleged incidents of sexual assault, and male students at the Citadel, the military school forced to admit its first female student, Shannon Faulkner, in 1994. A minister who was disowned by his father for opposing the Vietnam War, and a Vietnam veteran who had long, agonizing arguments with his father over his determination to speak out about the My Lai massacre.
In fact, the estrangement between sons and fathers is a recurrent theme in "Stiffed." As Ms. Faludi sees it, the World War II generation bequeathed to its baby boomer sons its own definitions and requisites for manhood: the promise of a frontier to conquer, the promise of "a clear and evil enemy to be crushed," the promise "of an institution of brotherhood in which anonymous members could share a greater institutional" glory and the "promise of a family to provide for and protect."
Unfortunately for the sons, Ms. Faludi goes on, the rules of the game had changed by the time they came of age. Space, which was supposed to be the new frontier, proved "a place not much worth conquering." Vietnam provided no clear-cut mission, no moral payoff. And the institutions that were supposed to provide "masculine honor and pride" in exchange for loyalty all too often turned out to be corporations willing to sacrifice their employees to downsizing.
At the same time, the dynamics of the nuclear family had altered in response to the growing independence of women and economic pressures for two-income households. As a result, Ms. Faludi observes, "all the elements of the old formula for attaining manhood had vanished in short order. The boy who had been told he was going to be the master of the universe and all that was in it found himself master of nothing."
In laying out this narrative Ms. Faludi has a tendency to repeat herself -- to make the same point over and over again -- and she has a tendency, especially in the second half of the book, to allow her interview subjects to natter on and on and on. But while this volume would have benefited enormously from a strict editing, it nonetheless remains a fair-minded and energetically reported book. It is a book that eschews the reductive assumptions purveyed by many feminists to put the predicament of the American man (and by implication, the American woman) into a broader cultural context, while showing just how drastically this country has changed during the second half of the 20th century.
 http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan Faludi. (Carlos Serrao)(pg. E8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: STIFFED: THE BETRAYAL OF THE AMERICAN MAN (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAM MORROW & CO INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); MEN (90%); FAMILY (76%); WORLD WAR II (72%); LITERATURE (70%); CELEBRITIES (69%); 

PERSON: KAKUTANI, MICHIKO; FALUDI, SUSAN SUSAN FALUDI (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



620 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1865 words

HEADLINE: Earthquakes: A Matter of Luck, Most of It Bad

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
The doom mongers are wrong, scientists say. The killer earthquakes that have shaken the globe in the last month and taken thousands of lives in Turkey, Greece and now Taiwan are no sign that the end is nigh. By all estimates, the number of large jolts around the globe is below average this year, and it is simply bad luck that the recent upheavals have ripped through populated areas, leveling thousands of buildings and leaving tens of thousands of people dead, missing and homeless.
But more bad luck is coming, experts agree. Even though the rate of earthquakes over time seems to be more or less unchanging, the world's population explosion means that more people are moving into quake zones, which are often near coasts. The result, experts say, is the prospect of continuing trauma as urban areas erupt with what seems like nearly endless bursts of destruction. 
 A million people have died in earthquakes this century, experts say. The next century might see 10 times as many deaths, with a million lost in a single blow, they add, unless major steps are taken to fortify dozens of sprawling cities expected to teem with billions of added residents.
"It is inevitable," said Klaus H. Jacob, an earthquake expert at Lamont-Doherty, the earth sciences research center of Columbia University. "More and more people, and more and more buildings, are at stake. As the world gets more populous and richer, allowing a more built-up environment, higher buildings and all the infrastructure that supports our civilization, communications and the like, the risk goes up."
John Boatwright, a geophysicist at the United States Geological Survey in Menlo Park, Calif., agreed. "In many places in the world, we've been building up infrastructure like crazy," he said. "We have to regard ourselves as really lucky" and the rash of recent tragedies as warnings of trouble ahead.
Roger Bilham, an earthquake expert at the University of Colorado now at Oxford University on a Guggenheim fellowship to study the rising urban risk, said the next quarter century might see three "megacities" hit hard, with three million lives lost.
"That's quite possible," he said, adding that disasters of such biblical dimensions might finally prod the world to get serious about quake-resistant structures. "That will be the spur."
Frank Press, author of "Understanding Earth" (Freeman, 1998) and a past president of the National Academy of Sciences, said Tokyo was one of the biggest worries given its global financial importance and history of devastating quakes. One in 1923 took 143,000 lives.
He said a future blow to the Tokyo area, now home to more than 10 million people, might "damage the world economy," setting off a downward spiral in advanced and developing nations. Dr. Press added that the Bank of Tokyo has quietly studied the likely cost of such an upheaval to Japan and the world, and concluded that it could be dire.
The United Nations is accelerating studies of the urban earthquake hazard as part of its global effort to help stem the toll of natural disasters.
Paradoxically, given the growing danger to cities, experts say that the earth's dynamism, including its volcanoes and earthquakes, restless plates and splintering rocks, is essential to making the planet habitable. For life in general and humans in particular, they add, the overall benefits far outweigh the risks.
"A planet without plate tectonics is dead," said Dr. Press, who as President Jimmy Carter's science adviser helped propel the nation's program to explore other worlds.
What makes the earth alive geologically is the slow release from its interior of heat, which fires out molten rock as volcanoes and pushes a dozen or so huge crustal plates into one another, causing rocks to break apart in earthquakes. As in most rocky bodies of the solar system, the planet's heat arises mainly from the slamming together eons ago of its rocky components and the radioactive decay of such elements as uranium, potassium and thorium.
This heat forces the earth's plates to move like conveyor belts, recycling millions of tons of crust each day. New plate material is ejected volcanically at long mid-ocean ridges. From there it spreads out across the ocean floor and is eventually destroyed hundreds or thousands of miles away as the cooling slab collides with and then sinks beneath other plates, plunging headlong back into the hot earth.
Over time, scientists say, all this action has helped produce the oceans, the atmosphere, the continents and fertile dirt, making the planet remarkably lush.
Does the solar system harbor hints of similar dynamism? Are there extraterrestrial quakes?
The Apollo astronauts found the Moon to be geologically dead. Its small size, which makes for a large surface area relative to its mass, was judged as having let its interior heat radiate into space long ago.
But now scientists are looking closely at Mars and several of Jupiter's moons, which are squeezed and probably heated by enormous tidal forces from the giant planet. Such places are seen as likely candidates for quakes and possibly life thriving in warm, dark, alien ecosystems down below inhospitable surfaces.
Dr. Torrence V. Johnson of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., said planetary scientists were drawing up plans to land quake sensors on such remote bodies, adding that similar dreams had gone unfulfilled for decades and might be sidetracked again.
"It's embarrassing," he said. "We have a good qualitative view of what happened" in the early days of the solar system but few details about its current state of geological activity.
On the earth, the action can be disastrous when square miles of homes and buildings are erected near the borders of the ambulatory slabs of crust that make up the planet's surface and slowly grind past one another about as fast as fingernails grow. These seams are the world's main quake zones, producing the vast majority of jolts.
Over the ages, the collision and separation of plates has produced the continents and their coastlines. The invisible seams are often nearby and potentially deadly for cities. California's famed San Andreas fault, for instance, is part of the larger process whereby the Pacific plate inches past the North American plate, keeping the golden state jumping and Angelenos edgy. The whole Pacific is ringed by analogous seams.
Taiwan is near the border of the Philippine and Eurasian plates, insuring a long history of upsets. Last week's quake had more than 1,000 aftershocks and took at least 2,000 lives.
Thousands of earthquakes occur around the globe every day, though most are small and only a few strike cities.
Waverly J. Person, director of the National Earthquake Information Center, in Golden, Colo., an arm of the United States Geological Survey, said historical records showed that the shaking of the earth by big quakes was in a relative lull right now, despite the apparent rash of recent upsets.
"Many people say these quakes are a sign that the earth is ending," Dr. Person said. "Well, the earth has been coming to an end for a long time."
Despite the lull, experts say the dangers will rise as more people inhabit cities near coasts and quake belts. Today, a third of the earth's population lives within 60 miles of a coast, experts say, and that fraction is expected to grow, increasing the vulnerability of people to both earthquakes and hurricanes.
Dr. Bilham of the University of Colorado wrote a pioneering paper on the rising quake hazard that was published in the journal Nature in 1988 and has explored the field ever since. He said the world now has 27 megacities, which the United Nations defines as holding at least eight million people, and that more than a third of these dense urban regions are near quivering plate boundaries.
The major cities at risk, he said, in addition to Los Angeles, Tokyo and Taipei, the capital of Taiwan, include Athens; Istanbul, in Turkey; Teheran, the capital of Iran; Islamabad, the capital of Pakistan; Calcutta, India; Jakarta, Indonesia, and Manila.
"The probability of any one megacity being hit is quite low," Dr. Bilham noted. "But if you take a plate boundary that has 10 cities, then the probability increases and I would not be surprised if one of those went quite soon."
Kerry Seih, a seismic expert at the California Institute of Technology, said the overall risk was rising. "There are a lot of big cities around the world that are going to be eaten in the coming century," he said, "unless we pay better attention" to erecting stronger homes and buildings.
"These earthquakes in the last year of the millennium are going to be an interesting test," Dr. Seih added. "Do we go on with business as usual, and fatalistically accept that we're going to loose tens of thousands of people a year? Or do we say, 'No, we have the know-how to survive more completely.' "
He said he had just returned from Turkey, where he had examined a riot of devastated buildings. "A lot that collapsed were new," he said, noting that such failures killed widely.
Both Turkey and Taiwan have building codes similar to California's, which are meant to let people get out alive in a major earthquake even if a structure is seriously damaged. Protective steps include reinforcing concrete walls and pillars, digging deep foundations and adding special joints that ease internal stresses when buildings start to shake and sway.
Experts say the codes are better enforced in Taiwan than in Turkey. That discrepancy, they say, added to the size of the Middle East disaster, which killed more than 15,000 people, and perhaps as many as twice that number. The total is unclear because of the slow recovery from the ruin.
Dr. Bilham of the University of Colorado, who recently returned to his sabbatical at Oxford from inspection trips to Turkey and Greece, said he was optimistic for the new century because so many new buildings would be constructed that in theory could be much stronger.
"It's buildings that kill people," said Dr. Bilham, a geophysicist, "not earthquakes."
Retrofitting to modern earthquake standards is very expensive, he said, costing upwards of half a building's value. But in new construction, earthquake precautions can add just 10 to 20 percent to building costs.
"So the good news is that if we come to grips with the reality that earthquakes will keep hitting planet earth, and acknowledge a certain future of shaking in cities, then we'll build buildings that don't fall down," he said. "By acting now, we can save a lot of lives."
The problem, he added, is that most developing countries, which most need the safeguards, tend to be mired in economic conflicts worsened by exploding populations. For instance, in one part of India, he said, planners faced a choice of whether to erect 150 buildings that were earthquake resistant or 200 that were not.
"They built 200," Dr. Bilham noted. "That's the kind of decision that's going on around the world."
In time, he added, probably after a series of urban disasters, and surely by the year 3000, "I'd be very surprised if we don't build buildings that don't fall down."
 http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A road split by a Sept. 21 earthquake in Taiwan, one of several populous areas jolted recently. (Reuters)
 
Chart/Map: "Major Cities, Major Hazards"
More and more people are living in major cities along the edges of the tectonic plates that form the earth's crust. The boundary areas are prime sites for earthquakes, and experts worry that earthquake deaths will rise as population increases there. Map of the world highlights probable maximum intensity of quakes and sites where shifts in the plates are likely to generate earthquakes. (Jim McManus/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Quakes Aren't Increasing. It Just Feels That Way"
Thousands of earthquakes occur every year, and each year there are at least a few major temblors. But the rate of major earthquakes does not appear to be increasing. Graph plots the number of earthquakes per year, since 1900. (Source: United States Geological Survey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (92%); GREECE (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (50%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (50%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); TURKEY (92%); GREECE (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; FORECASTS; URBAN AREAS; POPULATION EARTHQUAKES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); URBANIZATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



621 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: Asia Fires Its Rounds In the Flat-Screen War;
Get in Line for Those Notebook PC's

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: MOBARA, Japan

 BODY:
In the center of this verdant peninsula, just east of Tokyo, is one of the world's largest computer screen factories, where hundreds of humming robots and uniformed workers in clean rooms assemble 200,000 flat panels a month.
The factory operates around the clock. Workers have taken no vacations for more than a year. But they still cannot work fast enough to feed the enormous appetite for the flat-panel screens, used in computer notebooks, video games, communications terminals and now, increasingly, in desktop monitors. 
 "Right now, we are operating nonstop at full capacity, and we have more orders than we can possibly fill," said Zenzo Tajima, product manager for Hitachi Ltd.'s displays division, which expects its sales of the flat screens, known as liquid crystal displays, or L.C.D.'s, to more than double this fiscal year.
Business is booming for flat-screen manufacturers across Japan, South Korea and Taiwan. The main reason is a surge in demand from consumers and businesses around the world for personal computers and other electronic devices that feature the flat screens, which are increasingly appealing because they save space, look stylish and are technologically capable of providing brilliant color images and graphics.
Demand for the screens is so strong that Asian producers cannot fill 10 percent to 20 percent of orders, industry analysts and executives said.
 The earthquake that struck Taiwan last Tuesday could worsen the shortage if manufacturers based there cannot quickly restart production. Power failures could delay screen-making assembly lines on Taiwan for weeks.
"Screen makers will see a huge jump in revenues this year," said David Mentley, a vice president at Stanford Resources Inc., a market research firm in San Jose, Calif.
Analysts estimate that the sales of advanced flat screens used in laptops and desk monitors will reach $11 billion this year, up from $7 billion last year, and that sales could reach $15 billion in 2000 and $17 billion in 2001.
While the shortfall has been a boon to screen producers after years of oversupply that depressed prices and profits, it has created big headaches for computer makers like I.B.M., Dell Computer and Toshiba, which are scrambling to satisfy the appetite of customers for notebook computers and large desktop monitors.
The shortage has come at an awkward time. The back-to-school buying season has been under way for weeks, and the year-end holiday gift season is just a few months away. Many parents and students are shopping for personal computers. Moreover, companies are upgrading their computer equipment in advance of the new millennium. Many want to get rid of the clunky cathode ray tube monitors that dominate their desk space in favor of the flat screens.
But analysts say that neither large nor small customers are finding the discounts on notebooks and other computer equipment that they encountered at this time last year. That partly reflects the limited supplies of screens, which have helped push up the prices that screen manufacturers are charging computer makers by about 20 to 40 percent.
Consumers also find that they often cannot buy the machine they want without a long wait.
Adriana Maixner, a first-year M.B.A. student at Babson College outside Boston, said Dell Computer's representatives told her it would take at least three weeks to ship a popular $2,800 laptop model with a 14-inch screen. Dell, which helped pioneer direct sales of computers to consumers, typically can ship an order within five days.
"That's what they told me, that there's one supplier for the entire industry for this size screen," Ms. Maixner, 26, said. "And they said, 'You're welcome to call anyone else, but you're going to have the same problem anywhere.' "
Neisha Frank, a spokeswoman for Dell Computer, acknowledged that the shortage had forced the computer maker to extend its normal lead time for product delivery. "Some large corporate customers cannot get what they want right away," Ms. Frank said. "Yes, we could be selling more if it were not for the L.C.D. shortage, but exactly how much more, who can say?"
In some cases, corporate customers are waiting several months for delivery of popular models of computer notebooks and large desktop monitors with advanced flat screens.
"All personal computer makers are feeling the impact of this shortage, because they can't make or sell as much product as they would like," Masahiro Ono, a Tokyo-based analyst for Wahlberg Securities, said. "They also can't offer low discounts that consumers like because the companies are paying more for what used to be an insignificant part of the computer -- the screen."
I.B.M. said that the company was experiencing record demand for its Thinkpad notebooks and that despite the screen shortage, it was meeting the needs of most long-term customers. New customers, however, are facing delays, which the company declined to quantify.
Rick McGee, an I.B.M. vice president, said that because of the shortage I.B.M. was paying 30 percent to 40 percent more for flat screens but that the increase had not been passed on to consumers because the company had reduced the cost of other components in its computers.
Some American computer companies said the shortage had affected them only slightly. "We haven't had trouble getting a steady supply of L.C.D.'s from our supplier, but it has been hard to get them at a good price," Ray Aldrick, a spokesman for the Hewlett-Packard Company, said. "It used to be the processor was the most expensive part of a personal computer, but now it's the flat panel display."
Gateway Inc., which recently introduced a desktop flat-panel model, called Profile, said that it had encountered no difficulty meeting demand for laptops or desktops.
The shortage in flat-screen production is partly rooted in demand for larger screens in notebooks and desktop computers. At the same time, Asian manufacturers, hurt by the region's severe economic slump a few years ago, cannot increase production quickly because they failed to make necessary capital investments.
Last year, responding to consumer requests for larger screens, manufacturers shifted production of standard 12-inch displays to 13-, 14- and 15-inch screens. That reduced the number of screens they could produce from the same raw materials.
The shift in consumer tastes and the industry's seeming inability to foresee it has also contributed to the shortage.
"Customers want bigger, finer-looking screens with brighter colors and less battery power," said Aston Bridgman, a spokesman for the NEC Corporation, which makes flat-panel screens. "That's what's driving this surge in demand for L.C.D.'s."
Many panel makers and industry analysts expect the shortage to continue for another six months to a year, as worldwide demand for computers continues to grow. Analysts, however, expect the shortage to abate by the third quarter of 2000, when new factories begin production. Eventually, supply will once again outweigh demand and prices will drop, these analysts said.
The industry shortage underscores just how dependent the United States is on Asia for flat-panel screens. While American companies have the basic technology to make them, they have been reluctant to invest the hundreds of millions of dollars needed to build large factories.
Japan accounts for about 63 percent of global production of the flat-panel screens, while South Korea contributes 36 percent and Taiwan about 1 percent, according to an industry study by ING Barings Securities. The brokerage firm expects those percentages to shift to 52 percent for Japan, 30 percent for Korea and 18 percent for Taiwan next year.
"American computer companies had their chance to invest in L.C.D. manufacturing years ago, but they chose to let the Japanese and Koreans duke it out, spending tens of millions of dollars on new factories," Mr. Mentley of Stanford Research said. "I don't think that the L.C.D. guys have a lot of sympathy for these computer companies that have been squeezing them all these years."
 http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Making liquid crystal displays at a Hitachi plant in Mobara, Japan. Workers cannot work fast enough to meet demand. (Jonathan Ellis/T-Link for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Feast or Famine"
After a glut of liquid crystal display screens in 1997 and 1998, producers cannot meet current demand for the high-tech displays, causing screen prices to rise for the first time in years. Graph tracks the difference between production and demand for all L.C.D. screens, from the first quarter of 1997 through the projected second quarter of 2000. It also tracks the wholesale price of a 14.1-inch liquid crystal display screen, over the same period. (Source: DisplaySearch) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 6501 (TSE) (84%); TOS (LSE) (56%); 6502 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (84%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (94%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; DELL COMPUTER CORP; TOSHIBA CORP HITACHI LTD (84%); STANFORD RESOURCES INC (66%); TOSHIBA CORP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; DELL COMPUTER CORP; TOSHIBA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; TAIWAN; TAIWAN (94%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); ASIA (91%); UNITED STATES (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SHORTAGES; SALES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET MONITORS & DISPLAYS (92%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER MONITORS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); RETAIL SALES (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%); POWER FAILURES (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); EARTHQUAKES (50%); 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



622 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 389 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Modest Gains in U.S. Share Prices Send Treasuries Lower

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices fell for the first time in four sessions yesterday as stocks recovered a little of last week's declines, dampening the demand for bonds.
"The rebound in equities is taking the wind out of the sails in Treasuries," said Bruce Alston, who invests $1.5 billion of debt at Value Line Asset Management. 
 The price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell 6/32, to 98 15/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 6.01 percent from 5.96 percent on Friday.
Bonds briefly trimmed losses after Robert Parry, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said the Fed should wait until inflation picks up before raising interest rates. The bounce did not last as some traders noted that the remarks did not rule out an increase at the central bank's Oct. 5 meeting and noted that Mr. Parry is not a voting member of the Fed's monetary policy committee this year.
Treasuries were also held back as Fannie Mae, the CIT Group, PSEG Energy Holdings and Amerada Hess readied corporate bond sales.
Fannie Mae, the nation's largest buyer of home loans, is preparing to issue $3 billion of 6.5 percent five-year global notes and $1 billion of 6.25 percent 30-year bonds. CIT, a leading commercial finance company, plans to sell $1.5 billion of debt.
Some investors could not shake concerns that the Fed might raise interest rates for a third time this year to curb economic expansion. It has already lifted its target for overnight bank lending, the Federal funds rate, in two quarter-point moves to 5.25 percent. Still, many analysts say the Fed will probably hold rates steady next week.
The value of the 30-year bond has fallen 8.5 percent so far in 1999, reflecting price declines and reinvested interest.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.807	97.568	High Rate	4.72%	4.81%	Coupon Yield	4.85%	5.01%	Low Rate	4.65%	4.73%	Median Rate	4.69%	4.80%	Total applied for	$26,570,103	$28,185,159	Accepted	$10,303,988	$11,181,559	Noncompetitive	$1,156,724	$1,172,240	

Both issues are dated Sept. 30, 1999. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 30, 1999, and the six-month bills mature on March 30, 2000.
 http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks the average discount rate at weekly auction, since June. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HES (NYSE) (55%); CIT (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (55%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (70%); PSEG ENERGY HOLDINGS LLC (55%); HESS CORP (55%); CIT GROUP INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (95%); BOND MARKETS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); DEBT NOTES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); DEBT FINANCING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); 

PERSON: ROBERT T PARRY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



623 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled By Terence Neilan

 BODY:

EUROPE
 
BRITAIN: OPTIMISM ON JOBS -- The powerful head of the British Treasury, Gordon Brown, roused the opening day of the Labor Party annual convention in Bournemouth by pledging an end to poverty and jobs for all. With unemployment in Britain well below the European average, he told cheering delegates, "Britain can deliver, in our generation, employment opportunity for all -- a goal that this party and this movement has long sought, a goal now within our reach for the 21st century -- full employment for our country." Warren Hoge (NYT) 

GERMANY: SOLACE FOR SCHRODER -- The Social Democrats voiced relief on Monday, the first anniversary of their return to power, after hanging on to city halls in working-class heartlands after a month of losses in local elections. In mayoral runoffs across North Rhine-Westphalia, the biggest of Germany's 16 states, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's party won in Bonn and Dortmund but lost the state capital, Dusseldorf, as well as Cologne, Germany's fourth largest city. (Reuters)
 
GERMANY: NEO-NAZIS ATTACK G.I.'s -- Five United States Army musicians were attacked by three neo-Nazi youths shouting "Sieg Heil!" after a concert in the eastern town of Prenzlau, the German police said. The members of the First Infantry Division's touring big band were beaten with sticks as they returned from a restaurant to their hotel at 5 A.M. The youths were apparently rightist radicals "motivated by hate of foreigners," authorities said. Victor Homola (NYT)
 
ITALY: TURNCOAT DEBATE -- Political criticism of prosecutors' reliance on turncoat mobsters has heightened since the acquittal of former Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti in the killing of a journalist in 1979. Even before the verdict, Parliament was studying laws to restrict the use of such witnesses. "They must be used in the most balanced manner," Justice Minister Oliviero Diliberto said. "But without them we wouldn't know the first thing about the Mafia." Alessandra Stanley (NYT)
 
NETHERLANDS: ANNE FRANK HOME REOPENS -- Anne Frank House, where the Jewish teen-ager wrote her diary before being deported to a Nazi concentration camp, will be reopened today by Queen Beatrix after extensive restoration that began in 1995. The front has again become a warehouse and offices, looking much like the building Anne knew as she and her family hid in the secret annex in the back. The home is one of Amsterdam's most popular tourist sites. Marlise Simons (NYT)
 
MIDDLE EAST
 
EGYPT: MUBARAK RE-ELECTED -- As expected, President Hosni Mubarak won his fourth six-year term, the Interior Minister said, taking nearly 94 percent of the vote in a referendum on his presidency in which he was the only candidate. Mr. Mubarak is one of Washington's closest allies in the Middle East. Opposition groups boycotted the ballot, calling it a sham and demanding direct, multiparty elections for the presidency. (AP)
 
EGYPT: TORTURE COMPENSATION -- In an unprecedented ruling, a court ordered the Ministry of Interior to pay compensation to two accused Muslim Brotherhood members who were tortured by the police more than 40 years ago, police officials said. The court awarded $9,000 each to Mohammed Abdel Adhim and Hassan Mohammed in compensation for physical and mental torture they said they underwent during their 1954-56 imprisonment. Both men are in their late 70's. (AP)
 
IRAQ: NORTH AND SOUTH ATTACKED -- Western planes bombed a civilian target in northern Iraq, an Iraqi military spokesman said, and were fired on in the south. The spokesman, quoted by the official Iraqi News Agency, said American and British aircraft flew 22 sorties over the north. He did not mention any casualties. In the south, the spokesman said, Iraqi units fired missiles and antiaircraft guns and forced the planes to retreat to bases in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. (Reuters)
 
IRAN, IRAQ: P.O.W. EXCHANGE -- Iran is to release an unspecified number of Iraqi prisoners of war on Wednesday to mark the centenary of the birth of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the founder of its Islamic Government, officials here said. The handover will take place at a ceremony to be attended by Iranian political and military figures, they said. Baghdad says some 13,000 Iraqis remain imprisoned in Iran, while Teheran says 2,806 of its troops are detained in Iraq. (Agence France-Presse)
 
AFRICA
 
ALGERIA: MILITANTS SURRENDER -- Sixteen more Islamic militants have surrendered to Algerian authorities, taking advantage of a peace plan that would grant them amnesty, the daily Liberte in Paris reported. More than 98 percent of Algerian voters on Sept. 16 favored a peace referendum that called for Islamic militants to give up their arms and turn themselves in. (AP)
 
ANGOLA: BIG ARMY PUSH -- The Angolan Army waged a major offensive against a key stronghold of the rebel Unita movement, which said the town of Bailundo had been virtually razed and hundreds of civilians had been killed. Gen. Joao Baptista de Matos, the Angolan commander in chief, is leading the operation, an army spokesman said. (Agence France-Presse)
 
THE AMERICAS
 
MEXICO: VICTORY FOR THE PRI -- The governing party of President Ernesto Zedillo, known as the PRI, overwhelmed an opposition coalition in elections in Coahuila, which borders Texas. The PRI candidate for Governor, Enrique Martinez, won some 59 percent of votes, while the candidate representing four opposition parties, Juan Garcia Villa, received only about 33 percent, according to preliminary returns. PRI mayoral candidates were also leading in the state's three largest cities. Sam Dillon (NYT)
 
ECUADOR: ABDUCTED SPANIARD FREED -- A Spanish citizen who was one of a group of 12 foreigners kidnapped by armed men in a remote Amazon region of Ecuador has been found, Defense Minister Jose Gallardo said. The Spaniard, Ander Mimenza, left, appeared in the Lake Agrio region and contacted authorities. He was later flown to Quito at the request of the Spanish Embassy, Mr. Gallardo told local television. (Reuters)
 
ASIA
 
AFGHANISTAN: TALIBAN ACCUSES U.N. -- Three years after the militant Islamic Taliban movement captured Kabul, they are still unable to secure Afghanistan's United Nations General Assembly seat, and as a result they are threatening to reduce their already low level of cooperation with international organizations even further, a representative of the movement said in Pakistan. The Taliban, which has watched other governments change hands by force and get almost immediate recognition, overthrew an unruly coalition of former anti-Soviet mujahedeen once supported by the United States that is still fighting on the fringes of Afghanistan. Barbara Crossette (NYT)
 
AFGHANISTAN: TALIBAN'S NEW OFFENSIVE -- The Taliban movement reported taking several areas in the north where it has begun a second offensive within two months to dislodge opposition forces. The Taliban seized Dashti Archi in Kunduz Province and Hazratbagh in adjacent Takhar Province. (Reuters)
 
TAJIKISTAN: VOTERS BACK CHANGE -- Tajikistan has given strong backing in a referendum to constitutional changes that would extend the President's term to a single seven-year term, instead of two consecutive five-year terms as at present. It would also allow the opposition to set up Islamic political parties, an official said. Voters are hoping the changes will strengthen a shaky peace accord between the Moscow-backed secular Government and the Islamic United Tajik Opposition movement, which fought a civil war from 1992 to 1997. (Reuters)
 
SOUTH KOREA: DOGS GET A REPRIEVE -- The Government said it would not legalize the sale of dog meat, considered a delicacy by many Koreans, before the 2002 World Cup soccer finals get underway here. Several opposition lawmakers introduced a bill in the National Assembly last month to legalize the sale, but without Government support it is unlikely to pass. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry said authorizing sales of dog flesh would give South Korea a bad international image. (AP)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (52%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (52%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EGYPT (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (74%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (52%); ANGOLAN ARMY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ANGOLAN ARMY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EGYPT (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (74%); MAYORS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); HOLOCAUST (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ARMIES (69%); REFERENDUMS (68%); VERDICTS (68%); ORGANIZED CRIME (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); MUSIC (66%); DEPORTATION (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); ACQUITTAL (63%); WRITERS (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (54%); 

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (73%); GERHARD SCHRODER (69%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



624 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
America Online Unit to Reduce Subscription Costs in Britain

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 27

 BODY:
Hoping to stem its market slide in Britain, America Online said today that it would lower the monthly cost of subscribing to its service here.
AOL will charge users one British penny a minute, or 1.65 cents, in addition to the monthly subscription fee of 9.99 pounds , or $16.45, making it more competitive with Freeserve P.L.C., the British market leader, which requires only the cost of a local phone call to connect to the Internet. 
The move surprised some analysts because AOL U.K. had introduced Netscape Online, a subscription-free service similar to Freeserve, with considerable fanfare only a month ago. AOL U.K. is a unit of AOL Europe, which in turn is a joint venture between America Online and the German media conglomerate Bertelsmann.
In contrast to the United States, where Internet access over a telephone line is relatively inexpensive, access in Britain and most of Continental Europe can seem prohibitive. Users pay by the minute for local phone calls, in addition to the charge levied by the Internet access provider.
In Britain, the cost can be high as 6.6 cents a minute during peak hours, and range downward to 1.65 cents a minute at night or on weekends. As a result, Internet services like Freeserve and its imitators have emerged, luring customers by not charging a monthly subscription fee for Internet access. These subscription-free services make money by sharing a percentage of the revenue generated by the cost of the user's phone call with the telephone company.
AOL U.K. users spend an average of 17 minutes a day on line while users of America Online in the United States spend an hour a day on line. Now, AOL hopes to increase its share of business by keeping its metered charges on a par with those of its free-subscription competitors.
"If you make it cheap enough to use it all the time, people will use it all the time," said Robert W. Pittman, the president of America Online, in a telephone interview.
Some analysts said the new pricing system could cannibalize subscribers from America Online's new sister brand, Netscape Online. Bruce Kasrel of Forrester Research said, "It undermines Netscape Online, but they are willing to put Netscape Online on the chopping block if it means all of the subscription-free services are on the block with it."
AOL has traditionally relied on the monthly subscription model, which tends to provide significantly higher profit margins than the free-subscription model. As well as getting a part of local phone charges, the free services depend on revenue from advertising and electronic commerce.
Mr. Pittman maintained that America Online would not encroach on Netscape Online's customers because, he said, the two brands appealed to different segments of the market. Netscape Online, he said, is for the budget user, while AOL's proprietary content appeals to families.
Some analysts speculated that the move to what AOL U.K. labeled "off-peak all the time" would result in a surge of new subscribers that might overwhelm the company's network, much as happened in the United States in late 1996 and early 1997, when the parent America Online introduced flat-rate pricing. But Mr. Pittman said, "I hope we've learned from our mistakes."
Noah Yasskin, an analyst at Jupiter Communications here, predicted that as phone companies like British Telecommunications moved toward flat-rate pricing for local calls, the war between free-subscription Internet services and subscription-based services would blur.
Freeserve said today that it would offer 10 free hours of Internet access a month during off-peak hours if users placed a certain total of calls with its partner, Energis P.L.C.
Freeserve is expected to announce its first-quarter financial results on Tuesday, and analysts expect its growth to have slowed as a result of increased competition. http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (92%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (56%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA ONLINE; FREESERVE PLC; NETSCAPE ONLINE; ENERGIS PLC AOL INC (92%); WANADOO PLC (72%); BERTELSMANN AG (70%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA ONLINE; FREESERVE PLC; NETSCAPE ONLINE; ENERGIS PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) INTERNET & WWW (91%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); JOINT VENTURES (54%); 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



625 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japanese Officials Insist Yen Policy Hasn't Changed

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 27

 BODY:
Japanese monetary officials have spent the last few days trying to dispel the impression that they changed monetary policy to weaken the yen as a result of foreign pressure at a weekend meeting of rich industrialized nations.
The efforts by the Bank of Japan and the Ministry of Finance came after the Group of Seven countries issued a surprisingly frank statement Saturday night that they considered the yen's recent strength undesirable. 
 The statement from the meeting, which was held in Washington, went further than financial markets had been expecting and the yen plunged in value against the dollar when markets reopened today on speculation that central banks of the G-7 nations might act together to weaken the Japanese currency.
Apparently worried that the statement might have sent a wrong signal about possible concessions, Japanese officials said Sunday and today that they had made no policy changes.
But the dollar, which several times last week fell to its lowest levels in three and a half years, still ended the day higher yesterday. In late New York trading, the dollar cost 106.00 yen, up from 104.17 yen late Friday.
The yen has risen more than 15 percent in value in recent months on evidence that Japan's long-stagnant economy is finally expanding. But a stronger yen could threaten that recovery by making Japanese exports more expensive, hurting sales and profits in Japan.
The United States has said that Japan must take more aggressive steps to weaken the currency, like expanding the supply of money in the banking system -- a proposal the Japanese central bank rejected just last week. So the G-7 statement of unity concerning the yen suggested that Japan had changed its position.
As headlines around the world crowed that the bank had caved in to pressure, Masaru Hayami, the bank's governor, summoned reporters to a hastily called news conference on Sunday in Washington, where he told them they were misconstruing what had happened.
"Nothing has changed," he said in response to reports that the bank planned to print yen to spark inflation; that it had declared foreign exchange rates would play a role in setting monetary policy, and that it had otherwise amended its recent hard-line opposition to further easing its already loose monetary stance.
Indeed, comparing the statement Mr. Hayami issued at the G-7 meeting and the one issued after the bank's policy board met last Tuesday and voted not to change monetary policy, it seems no shift has occurred.
"The distinctions in what the bank has been saying have been lost in the very high level of politics between it and the Ministry of Finance," said Jeffrey Young, an economist at Nikko Salomon Smith Barney in Tokyo.
In Washington, the bank said its policy of maintaining short-term interest rates at zero percent has insured enough liquidity in the banking system -- the same thing it said last Tuesday. It said it was concerned that the yen's rise might negatively affect the Japanese economy -- which it also said last Tuesday.
Additionally, the bank said it would use what flexibility its current monetary policy offers to respond to changes in the economy and in the financial markets. Mr. Hayami made a similar statement at a news conference last Tuesday.
And the bank said it was considering how to change its money market operations to increase the money supply, something it has also previously said.
"The only thing that matters about that is by how much -- and Mr. Hayami has never said how much," said a senior bank official here. "I'm afraid the press has been fooled."
 http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since April 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN; BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); MINISTRY OF FINANCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN; BANK OF JAPAN MINISTRY OF FINANCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY JAPANESE YEN (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); TRENDS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE MASARU HAYAMI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



626 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: A HALF-CENTURY IN CHINA: THE PANDA PROTECTOR;
She Knows Species Like Family Members

 BODY:
Lu Zhi, a leading light in China's nascent conservation movement, was only 16 back in 1981 when she tested into elite Beijing University from her home in the northwestern city of Lanzhou.
Eighteen years later, she has more than fulfilled that early promise, distinguishing herself as a scientist and an awesomely hardy field researcher who may know more than anyone about China's most famous species, the giant panda. 
 And now, looking younger than her years, she has thrown herself into the most complicated challenge yet: saving the mountain redoubts of the thousand or so surviving pandas, redoubts that happen to be densely populated by poor farmers.
Last year, a Government group named her one of China's "Top 10 Young Intellectuals," an unusual honor for a Chinese employed by one of the few foreign-based nongovernmental organizations allowed here, the World Wide Fund for Nature.
As a college senior and an unhappy biochemistry major, Ms. Lu says, she went on a field trip with Pan Wenshi, the doyen of Chinese panda researchers, and found her calling. So for her doctorate, she switched to zoology.
It was a personal breakthrough. "Up to then, I always did what people told me to do," she said in her Beijing office the other day, just before taking off for rugged western Sichuan Province.
When she started her research, little was known about panda living habits, and she would spend most of seven years tracking them in the wild, often without adequate food or warmth for herself. Today, she plays down those hardships and notes how lucky she was to find pandas quickly and then come to know them "like members of a family."
In path-breaking publications, Ms. Lu and her mentor, Mr. Pan, refuted the impression, derived from pandas in zoos, that the species has trouble breeding. Left alone in their bamboo havens, it turned out, they do just fine; the problem is protecting the land.
Another big question was whether pandas are dangerously inbred. So Ms. Lu took a fellowship at the National Institutes of Health in Maryland, where she mastered genetic analysis and found that inbreeding is not yet serious. Passing up offers abroad, she returned home to make another leap, from science to sociology. She now spends her time with local farmers trying to harmonize economic development with wildlife.
No panda pictures grace her office walls. "Sometimes I get tired of them," she says. The panda is the global logo of her organization and a lucrative tool for fund-raising, all of which leaves her cold. "To me, the panda picture becomes a symbol of conservation politics," she said. "And a panda in the office is different from a panda in the wild."
She has turned down offers of Government jobs, but is well aware of the Government's power. She expects to return to Beijing University, where, she says, she could be in a better position to help shape national policies, train a new generation of conservation scientists and perhaps even find time to re-acquaint herself with some pandas.
"I don't see them any more," she laments. "I see people now."
 http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: LU ZHI, 34, -- an environmentalist with the World Wide Fund for Nature, meets a panda in its habitat in the southwest province of Sichuan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: WORLD WIDE FUND FOR NATURE PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (91%); WORLD WIDE FUND FOR NATURE (91%); WORLD WIDE FUND FOR NATURE (91%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD WIDE FUND FOR NATURE WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (91%); WORLD WIDE FUND FOR NATURE (91%); WORLD WIDE FUND FOR NATURE (91%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PANDAS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MAMMALS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); FAMILY (88%); FUNDRAISING (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (78%); ZOOLOGY (77%); MAMMALOGY (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); GENETIC BIOCHEMISTRY (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); BIOCHEMISTRY (67%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (67%); POPULATION DENSITY (55%); 

PERSON: LU ZHI LU ZHI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



627 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS BUSINESS;
Refusal of Bid for Jets Raises Antitrust Issue

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir 

 BODY:
Today, 111,031 people own the Green Bay Packers. The only publicly owned team in the National Football League is looked upon as a paragon of sports democracy -- even if shareholders have no say in team decisions or even a crack at season tickets -- and a delightful anomaly among gazillionaire owners.
For the N.F.L., one community-based ownership like the Packers is enough. Issuing stock in 1950 saved the Packers from leaving Green Bay. But no such survival issue exists with the Jets, who have 26 potential buyers in pursuit. 
 So last week, the league commissioner, Paul Tagliabue, spurned BuytheJets.com, an Internet fan initiative that has received commitments of $17.5 million, from 8,000 people, to buy the Jets, which will cost at least $500 million.
"Rules aside," Tagliabue wrote in a letter to Peter F. Vallone, Speaker of the New York City Council, "no team in any league is owned in this matter and an ownership structure of this type presents many issues and concerns." Vallone had written to Tagliabue in favor of his considering the bid.
John Crotty, a co-founder of BuytheJets.com, plans to urge the Web site's fan/investors to ask their Congressmen to review the league's antitrust exemption, which covers television contracts and labor, not ownership.
"Why should they get the exemption if they're not willing to consider the people seriously?" he said. "It's an insult to people's intelligence to say our structure doesn't work. Who can argue it doesn't work?"
In prohibiting Green Bay redux or corporate ownership, the league insists that teams be owned by individuals and that the managing partner control at least 30 percent of the team's stock and have no more than 25 partners.
"I think all restrictions about corporate ownership and the number of people who can own a team are potential antitrust violations," said Andrew Zimbalist, a sports finance expert and economics professor at Smith College.
But why is the BuytheJets.com plan anathema to the league?
First, with thousands of individual owners, the league wonders who would be in charge and who among the investors possess unsavory connections.
Second, it has doubts that the cash pledges to BuytheJets.com will yield real money.
Third, it wonders if the fan/investors can raise a half-billion dollars for the team, can they raise still more to operate the team and help finance a stadium? Would there be periodic Web pleas when cash gets tight?
Four, the league likes the status quo. "Fans have been very well served by local ownership and nowhere is that more true than in New York, where the Mara, Tisch and Hess families have been model sports owners," said Jeff Pash, an N.F.L. executive vice president.
Zimbalist said: "They'd rather have one zillionaire owner than any other form. But the big issue is control." The league fears that "another Al Davis" would emerge from the thousands of BuytheJets.com owners, he added.
Gary Roberts, a professor of sports and law at Tulane Law School, said no valid antitrust claim existed against the league for restricting ownership.
"I think an antitrust challenge is nonsense, but rhetorically, it sounds like an antitrust case," Roberts said, adding that a lawsuit could receive a sympathetic hearing depending on the judge. But he said an antitrust standard -- of consumer harm because of restricting ownership forms -- did not exist.
"Consumers are indifferent to who owns a football team," he said.
Still, BuytheJets.com could argue that it would be more likely to hold down ticket-price increases than a single owner looking to increase revenues.
The call here is for the N.F.L. to open the process to BuytheJets.com after performing a preliminary check on the credibility of the founders. The bid would be great for fan relations. And if the Web site becomes the J-E-T-S' O-W-N-E-R, the Giants Stadium superfan Fireman Eddie Anzalone could become its president.
 
Miller's (Small) Regrets
Johnny Miller cannot help himself. The NBC golf analyst says what he thinks far more than most analysts, and during the weekend's Ryder Cup telecast, his comments riled a few United States team members. "I've never been a players' announcer," Miller said yesterday.
On Saturday, Miller said that Ben Crenshaw, the United States captain, had erred by replacing Jeff Maggert with the underachieving Justin Leonard for the afternoon's matches. "I said, 'The only place Leonard should be was in his room watching TV,' " Miller said, recalling his remarks. "Maggert and Sutton were the stars so far. But if I had to say it again, I might not have. After I said it, I knew inside that I shouldn't have said it."
Leonard, the hero of the United States comeback, Davis Love 3d and Jim Furyk rejected Miller's comments after their matches Sunday. "I had three different arrows stuck in me, but they must have said this was their chance to tell Johnny Miller he was too strong in what he was saying," Miller said.
Furyk was miffed that Miller called him the underdog against Sergio Garcia in Sunday's singles. "It teed him off for me to say he was the underdog to a 19-year-old," Miller said. "I probably could have said 'slight underdog.' "
Miller went back on the air to defend his style of commentary after the golfers took their hacks at him. "I didn't want to, but I was told I had to," he said.
For NBC, the United States comeback produced its highest-ever overnight Nielsen rating for the Ryder Cup, a 6.3, up 62 percent from 1997. http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK JETS; NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE; BUYTHEJETS.COM GREEN BAY PACKERS INC (58%); NEW YORK JETS (94%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (93%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (93%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS; NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE; BUYTHEJETS.COM NEW YORK JETS (94%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (93%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (93%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); CITIES (53%); CITY GOVERNMENT (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; TAGLIABUE, PAUL (COMR) ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



628 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Latin American Markets Respond Calmly to Default
Stocks rose and currencies steadied across much of Latin America, the first day of trading after weekend news that Ecuador would default on some foreign debt and Colombia abandoned its system for defending the exchange value of its currency.
Analysts attributed the generally calm regional response to relief that both nations had ended weeks of speculation and uncertainty about how they intended to address their economic problems. Even with the Colombian central bank no longer intervening to prop up the value of the peso, the currency there slipped barely 1 percent. Page C6. 

Veba and Viag Agree to Merger
The German energy and chemical conglomerates Veba and Viag agreed on a $14.1 billion merger. "Size matters, especially in the energy sector," said Ulrich Hartmann, chairman of Veba. The merger is taking place as the competitive market for electricity in Germany has driven prices down by 30 percent in the last year. C4.
 
U.S. Share Prices Rise Slightly
Stock prices rebounded as investors became selective buyers of shares that were hit hard by last week's selloff. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 24.06 points, to 10,303.39. The Nasdaq composite index rose 21.34 points, to 2,761.75. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 5.95 points, to 1,283.31. C13.
 
Treasury bond prices fell for the first time in four sessions as the recovery in stocks dampened the demand for bonds. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond rose to 6.01 percent from 5.96 percent on Friday. C13.
 
Italy Investigates Money Laundering
A two-year criminal investigation in Italy has turned up evidence that Russian organized crime operators have funneled millions of dollars through the Bank of New York in what Italian prosecutors called a money laundering scheme. Through an examination of bank records and telephone wiretaps, investigators in Rimini say they have uncovered the first concrete examples of organized Russian gangs in Italy moving illicit funds through a group of accounts at the Bank of New York that are under investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. A1.
 
Internet Price War in Britain
America Online's British affiliate said it would lower the monthly cost of subscribing to its service so it could compete against companies that provide Internet access for the price of local phone calls. C4.
 
Copper Concerns Rethink Merger
Asarco and Cyprus Amax Minerals said they would seek alternatives to their merger agreement of last July, moves which may have the effect of putting the companies on the auction block. Phelps Dodge, which has made a hostile bid for Asarco and Cyprus Amax, and Grupo Mexico, Mexico's largest copper producer, which offered to buy Asarco for $1.03 billion in cash on Friday, are both pursuing takeovers. Shares of Asarco rose $3.375 yesterday, to $26.9375 C2.
 
Merrill to Offer After-Hours Trading
Merrill Lynch plans to offer after-hours trading to its five million brokerage customers next year. The announcement came two weeks after Merrill Lych purchased 14.3 percent of Archipelago, an electronic communications network. C8.
 
I.B.M. Wins Contract With Dell
I.B.M. won a contract to provide $6 billion in services to Dell Computer during the next seven years, enhancing Dell's effort to sell sophisticated computers to corporations. The growing relationship helps Dell expand in the market for high-priced equipment like servers and data storage devices and also lets I.B.M. capitalize on its technology and reach more customers. C7.
 
U.A.W. Approves Daimler Contract
Members of the United Auto Workers approved a four-year contract with DaimlerChrysler by a wide margin. The new deal, covering 75,000 hourly and salaried workers, was approved by 86 percent of voters in balloting Saturday. C8.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,303.39, up 24.06
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.01%, up 0.05
The euro -- $1.047, up 0.0004
The dollar -- 106.00 yen, up 1.83
 
Graph tracks share price of Asarco, since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: EOAN (FRA) (91%); EOAN (BIT) (91%); BK (NYSE) (57%); AOL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (91%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (91%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (91%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (91%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (94%); ITALY (93%); MEXICO (92%); ECUADOR (92%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%); 

COMPANY: VEBA OEL AG (91%); E.ON SE (91%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); AOL INC (52%); DELL I B M (73%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELL I B M (73%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (94%); ITALY (93%); MEXICO (92%); ECUADOR (92%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MERGERS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); TELEPHONE RATES (73%); AUCTIONS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); CHEMICALS (69%); CHEMICALS MFG (69%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); MONEY LAUNDERING (68%); ORGANIZED CRIME (68%); COPPER INDUSTRY (68%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (63%); WIRETAPPING (63%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: MERRILL LYCH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



629 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: A Record U.S. Fine at a Connecticut Nuclear Plant

BYLINE: By MIKE ALLEN 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Sept. 27

 BODY:
The owner of the Millstone Nuclear Power Station in eastern Connecticut admitted today that it had falsified environmental records and deliberately promoted unqualified plant operators. The owner, Northeast Nuclear Energy Company, pleaded guilty to 23 Federal felonies and agreed to pay $10 million in fines, the largest penalty ever for a nuclear plant in this country.
The violations took place from 1994 to 1996. 
 In entering the guilty plea in United States District Court here, Northeast admitted that hydrazine, a toxic chemical used to reduce corrosion of pipes, had gushed into Long Island Sound at a rate of one gallon an hour during 1996 and that testers at the company had diluted their samples with ocean water to hide the problem from Federal regulators.
Federal prosecutors said today that they were unable to prove environmental harm from the hydrazine.
The company also admitted that after it submitted fraudulent information to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 12 control-room operators received Federal licenses. Problems with the training program at Millstone came to light in 1996 when six of seven candidates for control-room operator licenses failed Federal exams, prosecutors said.
In presenting the evidence in court today, the prosecutors said the corner-cutting could have put the plant in the hands of workers unable to prevent a crisis.
The investigation, previously secret, came to light in court today when the company waived indictment and pleaded guilty. As part of the plea agreement, the company was put on three years' probation, which allows prosecutors to monitor operations more closely.
The Millstone case is just the second time that a nuclear power plant owner had been found guilty of felonies. Fifteen years ago, after the 1979 accident at the Three Mile Island plant near Harrisburg, Pa., which began the industry's plunge from public acceptance, Metropolitan Edison pleaded guilty to falsifying records at the plant.
Officials at Millstone said they hoped today's pleas would end the long period in which the plant has been considered a national symbol of mismanagement in the nuclear power industry. In 1997, Millstone was assessed a civil fine of $2.1 million by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. In 1996, a Time magazine cover story treated the plant as an egregious example of lax enforcement of Federal regulations.
The three reactors in Waterford, Conn., were shut down under orders from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission because of problems with design, safety and paperwork. One of the three reactors is being decommissioned, while the other two have been restarted and are producing energy.
Since 1996, the utility has hired new executives and taken steps that it says would prevent violations in the future. Federal prosecutors, while describing the old offenses in harsh terms, said in today's proceedings that they had confidence in the new managers.
After the large number of Millstone candidates flunked their licensing tests, investigators discovered that they had not put in the required number of training hours nor mastered the maneuvers that Millstone had falsely claimed, the Government charged. Some of the candidates have since been retrained and are now on the job, the company said.
Federal prosecutors said economic pressure brought on by deregulation of the nuclear industry had contributed to the violations. "Rather than treat the problem," said Joseph C. Hutchison, an assistant United States Attorney, "the shortcut was taken so there was some economic saving."
Mr. Hutchison said complaints by community groups and workers at the plants had led to the three-year Federal investigation.
Stephen C. Robinson, the United States Attorney for Connecticut, said of the agreement, "No matter who you are, no matter how big or how powerful, if you endanger our citizens, if you violate the law, if you lie to regulators and choose profits over the public, we will come after you."
Michael G. Morris, the chairman and and chief executive of Northeast Utilities, the parent of Northeast Nuclear, did not dispute a statement that the violations were deliberate, but said the public had never been in danger. As he left the courthouse today, Mr. Morris attributed the violations to "inattention to detail" and "inadvertence," not deregulation. "The whole notion that you react differently in a competitive marketplace is true, but it doesn't cause this kind of behavior," he said. He said the lesson for plant owners was "it's better to operate within all of the laws and the requirements because these kind of fines, these kinds of embarrassments, will come your way if you don't."
Mr. Morris was hired in 1997, after the offenses took place. Nevertheless, Judge Robert N. Chatigny called him to the front of the court this morning and told him sternly he hoped the plea reflected a commitment by the company "to be a better citizen in the future than it was in the past."
Judge Chatigny added that despite the efforts of those who work in the public interest, "Ultimately, the public has to depend on the good faith, honesty and integrity of the people who manage our large companies."
A spokeswoman for Northeast Utilities, Mary Jo Keating, said the plea agreement should help with the plans to sell the plant, as required by state legislation deregulating the industry. "The worst thing in the market is any kind of uncertainty," she said from the company headquarters in Berlin, Conn.
David M. Pittinos of the Toxics Action Center, an environmental group in West Hartford, said today's plea vindicated residents who had been worried about mismanagement and safety at the plant. The admissions were especially damning, he said, because "these companies typically offer to do just about anything to weasel out of criminal charges and reach some out-of-court settlement."
In addition to the 23 counts involving the nuclear plant, another subsidiary, Northeast Utilities Service Company, pleaded guilty to two felonies resulting from the use of a fire hose to dilute water samples taken at Devon Station, a coal-fired power plant in Milford. Prosecutors said that their case against the service company was complete, but that their investigation was continuing and that individuals might be prosecuted.
As part of the $10 million in fines, Northeast Utilities agreed to donate $1 million to endow a business ethics chair at the University of Connecticut in Storrs, and $650,000 for an environmental clinic at its School of Engineering; $1 million to help local towns buy riverfront land for conversion into public parks, and $650,000 to Riverfront Recapture, a Hartford group, for its leadership camp for disadvantaged city youth.
The agreement specified that the gifts were not tax deductible. The company said it did not intend to pass the costs on to consumers.
 http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A control room at the training center at the Millstone plant. Problems with the training program came to light in 1996 when six of seven candidates for operator licenses failed Federal exams, prosecutors said. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST NUCLEAR ENERGY CO NORTHEAST NUCLEAR ENERGY CO (91%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWEST NUCLEAR ENERGY CO NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND SOUND; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; MILLSTONE NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (CONN); WATER POLLUTION; FINES (PENALTIES); HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; HYDRAZINE (CHEMICAL); CHEMICALS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (94%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); GUILTY PLEAS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); VERDICTS (77%); FELONIES (77%); PROBATION (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (77%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); 

PERSON: ALLEN, MIKE MICHAEL G MORRIS (66%); JOSEPH C HUTCHISON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



630 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Crowded Florida Keys A Paradise in Trouble

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG 

DATELINE: KEY WEST, Fla., Sept. 23

 BODY:
For a minute or two, as the tall, tanned, beautiful woman from Norway splashed and laughed in the shallows, it was just another picture-postcard moment in the blue-green waters of Key West.
The vacationing Norwegian, Linda Eng, had not seen the signs on George Smathers Beach that warned that this water she was wading in was swimming with potentially deadly bacteria, and she was still flashing a 60-watt smile when a passerby told her that the placid, inviting water was contaminated. 
 "With what?" she asked.
Human feces, she was told.
Her smile turned upside down.
"I want to take a shower now," she said, looking stricken.
Signs warning of that hazard have been posted most of the summer on beaches on this coral rock island of Key West, perhaps the most storied and romantic tropical hideaway in the Eastern United States. Earlier this month, health officials posted more signs on beaches on Marathon and Tavernier Keys, after water there showed fecal contamination.
In Key West, antiquated, leaking sewage lines are allowing raw sewage to seep into the shallows, and work crews are tearing up streets all over the city to repair the sewer system, a project that the state -- even before this crisis -- ordered the city to complete by 2002.
State health officials are still trying to determine why the human waste showed up in the Upper Keys off Marathon and Tavernier, closer to the Florida peninsula. Probably, Keys residents reason, it is coming from old septic tanks and sewer lines there, too, overwhelmed by overdevelopment, and never compatible with the high water table and porous limestone ground in the first place. It is a serious health risk. E. coli bacteria, found in human waste, can kill.
"Young children and the elderly are at the most risk," said Stephanie Walters, administrator for the Monroe County Health Department, "especially children, because they tend to drink the water while they are swimming." The bacteria in the water can cause nausea, diarrhea, ear and eye infections and respiratory illness, she said.
The contamination has had only a minor impact on tourism -- in part because vacationers usually learn about the hazard only after they have arrived, in part because most people who come to Key West are more interested in diving in cleaner reef waters offshore -- but the hazard has prompted some to cut vacations short, hotel managers said.
"They come all this way, just to find a sign on the beach with a skull and crossbones," said Carl Hiaasen, the best-selling novelist whose books on South Florida, beginning with "Tourist Season" and more recently "Lucky You," have harpooned politicians and developers for their ruination of Florida's ecology.
"Every time a toilet is flushed in the Keys, these E. coli paddle out on their little surfboards," said Mr. Hiaasen, who lives in Islamorada in the Upper Keys and writes a popular, politically acerbic column for The Miami Herald. "We're poisoning it," he added, more seriously. "It's heartbreaking."
A survey by the Key West Hotel and Motel Association, expected soon, will determine how much contaminated beaches are costing the Keys in tourism dollars, said Jack Smith, the association's executive vice president. But more than money is at stake.
"This will be the thing that kills the Keys if we don't do something about it," said Nora Williams, the Monroe County Commissioner who called for water testing earlier this year. She did that, she said, because the water looked dirty, something other Keys residents have noticed with increasing dismay. Water is what lures people here, to live or to play.
Although the city of Key West has an airport that can handle commercial jets, many people choose to drive down from Miami, across a connect-the-dots highway of bridges, more than 120 miles in all, that link the island chain with the rest of the state.
Look to the west, driving from the peninsula to Key West on Route 1, and small, green islands stretch across the shallows toward Florida Bay and the Gulf of Mexico. Look to the east, and the Atlantic shimmers blue toward a seemingly endless horizon, but with Cuba just 100 miles away. Some islands are barely wider than the road, with just enough room between asphalt and open water for tiki bars, charter-boat businesses and of course real estate offices.
It is easy to believe, floating in such beauty, that it is still paradise, residents here say, but for a long time it has been changing. Route 1 creeps with bumper-to-bumper traffic, even on a weekday afternoon, the convertibles and rental mini-vans of tourists sandwiched by trucks hauling mobile homes and concrete. At night, on Marathon Key, it is possible to hear the electricity hiss and buzz through the power lines as it travels from the peninsula to the bars on Key West's Duval Street, where the venerable Sloppy Joe's, where Ernest Hemingway drank, now shares the street with the Hard Rock Cafe and Planet Hollywood.
According to the Bureau of Economic and Business Research at the University of Florida, the 1990 population of Monroe County, which includes the Keys, was 78,000 people, and environmental groups were screaming that the chain of islands, with so little dry ground, was overdeveloped. In 1998, the population of the islands had swelled to 85,646.
In April, there were 27,698 people living in Key West, compared with 24,832 in 1990. But in Key West alone, more than 18,600 visitors a day, on average, fill the island, according to the Key West Planning Department.
To see the impact, just stroll to any canal. "In the past couple of years, I've seen largely reduced visibility and increased murkiness," said Ms. Williams. "Most visitors would not notice it -- people thought it was so clean they could drink from it -- but it has become pretty noticeable to natives and residents.
The Key West City Commission voted unanimously last week to put a bond referendum on the Nov. 2 ballot, asking voters to decide if the city should borrow up to $23 million to accelerate work on the sewer lines and upgrade the city's sewage treatment plant. Elsewhere in the Keys, county officials have a block-by-block plan to repair damaged and obsolete sewage systems, said Jack Teague, environmental administrator for Monroe County.
What is really needed is a new waste-water treatment plant for the Upper Keys, some residents and environmental groups say.
"Mother Nature is saying, Enough is enough," said Lynne Cameron, who heads a privately financed social service agency in Miami, but lives part of the week in Tavernier.
Fran Decker, who lives in Marathon and heads the local advisory council to the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, has seen the canal behind her home grow murky, and the fish and lobster populations there have dwindled. "I feel like many people were in denial," Ms. Decker said. "They didn't feel like it could happen here. It kind of contradicts what the Keys are about."
It only became a real issue, said Mr. Hiaasen and others who live here, when it became an economic one. "The sad truth is, this had been around for a long time," Mr. Hiaasen said. "They only just started testing for it. Some people were actually upset that the news was published before Labor Day. God forbid we should warn anybody."
But even then, city and tourism officials have put a positive spin on it. "I've read that the beaches here are closed, but none of the beaches are closed," said Mr. Smith, of the Key West Hotel and Motel Association. Sunbathing, he said, is perfectly safe.
"Now," he added, "going in the water is another story."
Hoteliers are taking the threat seriously, posting the warning at front desks.
"We've had our grim days this year," with cancellations, said Mike Proimos, general manager of the Marriott Casa Marina Resort in Key West. But like many others here, he points out that Key West has much more to offer than beaches.
Diving trips to the coral reef that runs alongside Key West have been mostly unaffected, because that water is not tainted with the feces, and the Key West bars -- the real reason many people come here -- are still open. Like New Orleans, Key West is one of those cities where it is common, if not acceptable, to be dog-drunk at 10 A.M.
"They come down here because they like the atmosphere, the landscape, the partying," Mr. Marshall of Sloppy Joe's said.
"I would still go swimming. It wouldn't bother me," he said. "You don't see raw sewage floating around beside you or anything."
At night, people still gather to watch the sunset, drinks in hand. But Smathers Beach was recently deserted, except for a middle-age couple who were very careful not to get their feet wet.
 http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: No swimmers, just a single observer, on Smathers Beach on Key West, where a sign warns that the water may be contaminated by human waste. (Photographs by Lonnie Schlein/The New York Times)
 
Map of Florida showing the location of Key West: Key West is growing, as are problems with waste disposal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); 

CITY: KEY WEST, FL, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: KEY WEST HOTEL (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KEY WEST (FLA); UNITED STATES (97%); FLORIDA, USA (97%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; BEACHES; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; REFERENDUMS; GOVERNMENT BONDS WATER POLLUTION (90%); BEACHES (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); E COLI (89%); BACTERIA (89%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (88%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (88%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (63%); CHILDREN (63%); TOURISM (62%); WRITERS (62%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (62%); BONDS (60%); BESTSELLERS (60%); REFERENDUMS (59%); HOTEL STAFF (50%); 

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK GEORGE ARMISTEAD SMATHERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



631 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Noisy Party For a Man Known to All

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON 

 BODY:
There were those in the noisy crowd at Tavern on the Green last night who had to ask who was the woman over there (a boldface name) or the guy in the plaid suit (a judge) or the man in the glasses (a millionaire -- no, a billionaire). But no one had to ask, Howard who?
It was a party for the man everyone seemed to know, Howard J. Rubenstein, the president of a 160-person public relations firm and an adviser to mayors, cardinals and other powerful figures in New York City, as well as Leona M. Helmsley and George M. Steinbrenner 3d. 
 "He's like an octopus," said Beth Rudin de Woody, whose father, the real estate developer Lewis Rudin, is a longtime Rubenstein client. "His tentacles reach out all over politics, entertainment and sports. He's affected so many people's lives in terms of bringing them to fame. Or hiding them from fame, protecting them."
Mr. Rubenstein has been at it for 45 years, ever since he dropped out of Harvard Law School. He has represented nightclub owners and international bookmakers, and charities and colleges. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani told the crowd that Mr. Rubenstein was the only person in the city who could represent both the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York and the Brooklyn Museum of Art.
The Mayor also read a proclamation that called Mr. Rubenstein "the dean of damage control." In the crowd, some of his clients praised his unflappability in handling crises.
"You think yours is the biggest thing in the world," said Tim Zagat, a co-publisher of the Zagat restaurant guides and chairman of NYC and Company, the entity that includes the New York City Convention and Visitors Bureau. "He says, 'This is not nearly as big as the city's financial crisis that I handled in '75.' "
As Mr. Zagat spoke, Mr. Rubenstein was shaking hands with the likes of Leonard A. Lauder, the chairman of the Estee Lauder Companies; Henry J. Stern, the city's Parks Commissioner; the singer Michael Bolton; Cristyne F. Lategano, Mr. Giuliani's former communications director and the president of NYC and Company; the director Mike Nichols and his wife, Diane Sawyer of ABC News; and Raoul Lionel Felder, the divorce lawyer whose mother was Mr. Rubenstein's first client. (She ran a home for the elderly in Brooklyn.)
"One day I made an appointment with Howard, just to talk," said Dr. Ruth Westheimer, the psychologist and sex-talk show host. "While I was there, in the middle of a sentence, he went to the phone. He got a call from a duchess."
That call led to a one-word question that Mr. Rubenstein whispered to one of his vice presidents last night. The question was, "Fergie?"
"I don't have two-way, but I'm told she's coming in," the vice president said.
"Howard! Howard! Howard! Behind you!" another Rubenstein employee all but shouted.
There was Sarah Ferguson, the Duchess of York, who is a spokeswoman for another Rubenstein client, Weight Watchers International. "He has given me back my confidence," she said. http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (82%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (82%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: PARTIES (SOCIAL) CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); LAWYERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ADVICE COLUMNS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (65%); RELIGION (65%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (50%); 

PERSON: RUBENSTEIN, HOWARD J; BARRON, JAMES MIKE NICHOLS (62%); RUDY GIULIANI (55%); LEONARD LAUDER (50%); DIANE SAWYER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



632 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Urges Japan to Widen Capital Sources

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, urged Japan today to develop more vibrant stock and bond markets, saying that the country's over-reliance on its moribund banking system had deepened its economic downturn and impeded its recovery.
Speaking to the annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, Mr. Greenspan said countries like the United States that had well-developed capital markets as well as strong banking systems weathered global and domestic financial crises far better than those that relied primarily on banks. 
 Mr. Greenspan's remarks covered the experiences of a number of countries, from Thailand -- whose economy was decimated by the market turmoil that swept through Asia in 1997 and 1998 in part because of its reliance on banks for capital -- to Sweden, which withstood an acute domestic banking crisis in the early 1990's because companies there were able to raise money through other sources.
But the Fed chairman's message seemed aimed most directly at Japan. It followed two days of meetings here in which finance ministers and central bankers from the United States and Europe again pressed their counterparts from Tokyo to do more to revive the Japanese economy and clean up the huge overhang of bad loans that has all but paralyzed the country's banking system.
Mr. Greenspan said Japan was the "archetype of virtually bank-only financial intermediation." When the banking system got into trouble, he said, the result was a deep and continuing credit squeeze that has crippled an economy that had been Asia's linchpin.
"The Japanese Government has intervened in the economy and is injecting funds in order to recapitalize the banking system," Mr. Greenspan said. "While it has made some important efforts, it has yet to make significant progress in diversifying the financial system, which arguably could be a key element, although not the only one, in promoting long-term recovery."
Mr. Greenspan also reiterated a message that the United States has long delivered with little effect: that Tokyo will save money in the long run if it stops dithering and acts more forcefully to close failed or failing banks, sell foreclosed real estate and other assets, and create a smaller but healthier banking system.
"Speedy resolution is good, whereas delay can significantly increase the fiscal and economic costs of a crisis," Mr. Greenspan said.
Mr. Greenspan did not address the current state of the American economy or provide any hints as to whether the Fed will raise interest rates when its policy-setting committee meets next week. Analysts say the central bank is increasingly likely to hold rates steady and wait for further evidence as to whether the economy is slowing sufficiently to avert any buildup in inflationary pressures.
Mr. Greenspan also avoided any mention of the Japanese currency. The rise of the yen against the dollar over the last several months prompted the Japanese central bank to make statements this weekend that some took to be hints that it might reverse course and increase the money supply to weaken the currency, a step the United States favors.
Mr. Greenspan, whose speech was titled "Lessons From the Global Crises," said one reason the American economy held up so well last year was that as the bond market seized up in the aftermath of Russia's debt default, the commercial banking system stepped up its lending.
"With the process of credit creation able to continue, the impact on the real economy of the capital market turmoil was blunted," Mr. Greenspan said.
But Fed officials are now increasingly worried that bank lending standards in the United States have grown too lax. Laurence H. Meyer, a Federal Reserve governor, told the Institute of International Bankers in a speech today that while overall loan portfolios remain sound, there has been a modest but troubling increase in questionable lending.
"Lenders are relying too much on the continuation of good times," Mr. Meyer said. "They're assuming a very optimistic view of their borrowers' operating prospects and that their borrowers always will have ready access to the financial markets. And sometimes they're failing to subject loans to meaningful 'stress tests' that would, for instance, tell them if their borrower could withstand an unexpected shock to operating revenue." http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; WORLD BANK; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; WORLD BANK; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); REAL ESTATE; FORECLOSURES BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BONDS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INFLATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); JAPANESE YEN (71%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



633 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

 
INTERNATIONAL A3-16
 
Italian Inquiry Indicates Russian Money Scheme
A two-year criminal investigation has turned up the first concrete evidence that suspected organized crime operators from Russia have funneled millions of dollars through the Bank of New York, prosecutors in Italy said. A1 

Kosovo War Crimes Case
French police in Kosovo notified the families of 26 men missing for five months that the men had been killed by Serbs and dumped in a mass grave. The French have arrested four suspects. The case is the first time that foreigners have completed a war-crimes investigation in Kosovo, working from the first reports of missing people to finding the grave and making arrests. A1
 
Settlers Expand Under Barak
The Government of Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel has authorized construction in the West Bank of Jewish settlements at a pace exceeding that of the Netanyahu Administration. On Sunday, Mr. Barak ordered a review of the Housing Ministry, which had authorized the new housing. It was unclear whether the Ministry had authorized the building with Mr. Barak's tacit consent or without his direct knowledge. A16
 
Pinochet Extradition Hearings
Hearings began in London on Spain's effort to extradite Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former Chilean dictator, to stand trial on torture charges. Chanting and flag-waving supporters of the general outnumbered opponents outside court. A8
 
Ruling on Gay Soldiers in Britain
The European Court of Human Rights declared that Britain's longstanding ban on homosexuals in the military was a violation of the basic human right to privacy. Human rights lawyers said the ruling would probably force Britain to allow openly gay men and women to serve. A8
 
Support for Paying U.N. Dues
Some members of Congress said there was sufficient support on Capitol Hill for paying much of what the United States owes the United Nations. The United States faces losing its General Assembly vote in less than 100 days for not paying its dues. A8
 
World Briefing A10
 
NATIONAL A18-23
 
Congress Admits Deadline On Spending Bills Will Pass
Republican leaders in Congress formally conceded that they would not meet the deadline for passing the annual spending bills, and the White House laid down a new deadline, three weeks away. A1
 
President Clinton criticized Congressional Republicans for offering a spending bill that would cut White House initiatives to modernize school campuses, reduce class sizes and improve teaching quality. A20
 
Shift on Reorganization Bill
Energy Secretary Bill Richardson said he would recommend that President Clinton sign a $289 billion Pentagon budget bill that overhauls the Energy Department, creating an agency within the department to oversee nuclear weapons programs. A20
 
Support for DNA Reviews
A panel appointed by the Attorney General urged prosecutors to be more amenable to reopening cases in which convictions might be overturned because of the use of DNA testing, even when the prescribed time for appeals has expired. A18
 
The Shifting Republican Field
Dan Quayle said he would abandon his quest for the Republican Presidential nomination for lack of money and support, as Senator John McCain formally began his campaign with a pledge to restore faith in government. A22
 
Tripp v. Clinton Administration
Linda R. Tripp filed a Federal suit against the White House and the Defense Department, asserting that confidential records had been used to smear her reputation after she brought the Monica Lewinsky scandal to light. A20
 
California H.M.O. Legislation
Gov. Gray Davis signed bills that make major changes in the relationship between patients and H.M.O.'s and could influence managed health care coverage across the country. The legislation gives patients the right to sue health insurers for punitive damages and solicit outside reviews of decisions denying them coverage. Managed care providers will have to pay for second opinions on some treatments, cover the testing and treatment of breast cancer, pay for contraceptives and expand coverage for serious mental illnesses. A1
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-16
 
Talks on Art Dispute Fail; Museum Says Show Is On
The chairman of the Brooklyn Museum of Art discussed removing a dung-marked portrait of the Virgin Mary from a disputed exhibition, but after city officials disclosed that to reporters, other museum officials responded with dismay and the chairman said the exhibition would proceed as planned. A1
 
Hillary Rodham Clinton denounced the Mayor's threat to cut museum financing, though she, too, found the exhibition objectionable. B5
 
The artist of the Madonna painting said in an interview that critics of the work "are attacking their own interpretation, not mine." E1
 
Wider Spread of Virus
Officials said a mosquito-borne illness had infected nearly twice as many people as thought and might be in a far larger area. Experts confirmed that it was not St. Louis encephalitis but West Nile virus. A fourth death was attributed to the outbreak: a Westchester County woman in her 60's. A1
 
Tobacco Company Link to Trips
Philip Morris donated a total of $30,000 to a Hungarian-American group around the time Governor Pataki made two trips to Hungary to promote trade and trace his roots. An aide said the Governor and his staff were unaware of the donations. A1
 
Fire Kills Father and 3 Children
A suspicious fire that engulfed a Queens home claimed the lives of three children and their father, who despite severe burns had tried to get back inside to save their lives. B1
 
Nuclear Plant Operator Fined
The owner of the Millstone Nuclear Power Station in eastern Connecticut pleaded guilty to 23 felonies and agreed to pay $10 million in fines. B1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES B14
 
Oseola McCarty
The Mississippi washerwoman who gave away nearly every dollar she ever made to endow scholarships for poor students was 91. B14
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-27
 
Atlantic Monthly Is Sold
Mortimer B. Zuckerman sold The Atlantic Monthly for an undisclosed sum to David G. Bradley, who owns The National Journal Group. C1
 
Banks Ignite Gold Prices
The belated intervention of European central banks pushed the price of gold up $14 an ounce, to $281.90, giving gold-mining stocks a lift. C1
 
Ruling on Copyright
A Federal appeals court ruled that three major publishers could not include the work of freelance contributors in electronic data bases without their permission. C1
 
Fed Chief's Advice to Japan
Alan Greenspan urged Japan to develop more vibrant stock and bond markets, saying over-reliance on its moribund banking system had deepened its economic downturn and impeded Japan's recovery. C1
 
Japanese monetary officials were trying to dispel the notion that they changed monetary policy to weaken the yen under foreign pressure. C4
 
Business Digest C1
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-14
 
Health & Fitness F8
 
FASHION B15
 
ARTS E1-8
 
EDITORIAL A24-25
 
Editorials: Russia's Chechen gamble; home financing for the Clintons; a ruinous yen policy; misuse of drug treatment records.
Columns: Gail Collins, Anthony Lewis.
 
Crossword E6
 
TV Listings E7
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D4
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (73%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); 

COUNTRY: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (73%); EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (54%); EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (54%); EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHILE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EXTRADITION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); WAR CRIMES (91%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); APPROPRIATIONS (88%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (88%); GAYS & LESBIANS (86%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); LAWYERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DNA (78%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); FORENSICS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); GENOCIDE (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); TORTURE (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); REAL ESTATE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); POLICE FORCES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); GENETIC SCREENING (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); BIOETHICS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (69%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (68%); ARMED FORCES (64%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (64%); DNA TESTING (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: EHUD BARAK (77%); BILL RICHARDSON (77%); BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



634 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: ASIA;
CRESVALE FILES A SUIT

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The Tokyo branch of Cresvale International filed a criminal complaint against executives and employees at Princeton Economics International Inc. and its custody agent for suspected fraud. Cresvale, which sold funds run by Princeton to Japanese corporations, filed suit against its parent and Republic National Securities. Akira Setogawa, above, chairman of Cresvale in Tokyo, told 37 Japanese investors that about 109 billion yen ($1 billion) of their money was missing. Earlier, Martin A. Armstrong, chairman of Princeton, was charged in the United States with defrauding Japanese investors of about $1 billion.
 http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (92%); JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: CRESVALE INTERNATIONAL LTD; PRINCETON ECONOMICS INTERNATIONAL LTD; REPUBLIC NEW YORK SECURITIES CORP CRESVALE INTERNATIONAL (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CRESVALE INTERNATIONAL LTD; PRINCETON ECONOMICS INTERNATIONAL LTD; REPUBLIC NEW YORK SECURITIES CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; ASIA (92%); JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS LITIGATION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); BONDS (83%); 

PERSON: SETOGAWA, AKIRA

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



635 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Transit Strike Threatened Unless Bigger Raises Are Offered

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
In an opening salvo before negotiations begin, the president of the transit workers' union is threatening a strike in December if the Metropolitan Transportation Authority does not offer raises larger than those in the current contract.
At a news conference yesterday, Willie James, the president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, said the union wanted the M.T.A. to devote much of its anticipated budget surplus to its 33,000 unionized workers. 
 Backed by a phalanx of city, state and national labor leaders, including John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., Mr. James took a tougher line than in the past, partly because many city bus drivers and subway motormen are angry that their recent wage increases have lagged behind the inflation rate.
With the union's current contract expiring on Dec. 15, Mr. James raised the possibility of a strike shortly before Christmas and New Year's Eve, a move that could throw the city into chaos.
"There's definitely a possibility of a strike," he said. "But there's always the possibility of a fair and just settlement without a strike."
The union is scheduled to make its first formal bargaining offer on Oct. 7, with negotiations expected to begin later in the month.
Thomas Kelly, a spokesman for the M.T.A., which is the parent agency of New York City Transit, said, "The M.T.A. would hope a fair and equitable settlement could be reached, balancing the needs of the transit workers with the needs of the riding public."
At the news conference, Mr. James vowed that labor leaders would not let the M.T.A. cry poverty. He said that his members, by accepting concessions in recent contracts, had shared in the city's pain during hard times, but now, he insisted, union members should share in the boom times.
Under their current three-year contract, transit workers -- whose annual salary averages $39,000 -- received a single 3.75 percent across-the-board wage increase, a lump sum averaging $800 and, for the 30 percent of workers with at least 15 years of experience, a supplementary pay increase of $200 to $500.
M.T.A. officials said the transit authority's projected revenues for this year would be $40 million more than anticipated. Mr. James said M.T.A. officials were underestimating the size of the surplus to weaken the union's hand in negotiations.
Mr. Kelly asserted that the transit authority did not have a surplus, but merely $40 million more in revenues than had been projected. He added that the transit system "has always operated on a deficit because the fares and other M.T.A. transit monies only equal about 65 percent of the operating revenues," with additional funds coming from taxes and tolls.
Mr. James declined to disclose bargaining positions, although he said the union would demand "a substantial wage increase."
In May, he called for a 30 percent raise over three years, but yesterday he indicated that his initial bargaining offer would be less than 10 percent a year for three years.
But he added: "My membership is worth double-digit raises. State politicians and city politicians have given themselves double-digit raises. My members do essential work, and so why don't they deserve double-digit raises too?"
Many union leaders joined Mr. James's news conference, partly because the transit contract could set a pattern when City Hall begins bargaining later this year with a coalition of unions representing more than 200,000 municipal employees. "The Transport Workers Union contract would have some influence on city negotiations -- everyone sees it that way," said Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers.
The labor leaders pledged their support to the transit workers partly to strengthen the union's hand in negotiations. Since the state's Taylor Law prohibits transit workers and other municipal unions from striking, they proposed asking all union members in the city to help pay any fines the transit workers might face. The last transit strike was an 11-day walkout in 1980.
Mr. Sweeney, whose father was a bus driver who belonged to Local 100, said that with the city booming, the transit workers should be given a contract that lets them benefit from the good times. http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY; TRANSIT WORKERS UNION T H E M INTERNATIONAL INC (90%); METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); AFL-CIO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY; TRANSIT WORKERS UNION AFL-CIO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; STRIKES LABOR UNIONS (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); CHRISTMAS (73%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; JAMES, WILLIE THOMAS J KELLY (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



636 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 28, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: The Guggenheim Proposes Gehry Museum for New York

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL with CAROL VOGEL 

 BODY:
The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum has submitted a proposal to New York City for a dramatic new curvilinear building designed by Frank O. Gehry that would rise as high as 45 stories on a platform over four East River piers near Wall Street.
The project, larger than one the museum had envisioned last year for a West Side pier, has been budgeted at about $850 million and would contain large exhibition wings, a theater, a skating rink and other public amenities, according to an internal financial memorandum and accounts from officials familiar with the plans. More than a third of the cost has already been privately pledged, said the officials, who estimated that the complex could take six years to build. 
 Thomas Krens, the director of the Guggenheim, declined to publicly discuss the proposal, one of nine for the site. The city's Economic Development Corporation is expected to select one within the next few months, but a spokeswoman, Bernadette O'Leary, declined to give detailed descriptions of the proposals, which include a hotel, a cruise-ship dock and an aquarium.
The Guggenheim complex would be substantially larger than the $100 million free-form museum that Mr. Gehry built for the institution in Bilbao, Spain. Opened in 1997, the 250,000-square-foot Bilbao museum with its rakish silhouette and titanium skin has been widely hailed as one of the 20th century's architectural marvels and draws more than 1.4 million visitors annually to the revived Basque riverfront city.
Mr. Gehry fended off questions about the project as premature. "We're studying the way you build a building over the water and need some input from City Planning," he said.
Joseph B. Rose, chairman of the City Planning Commission, said the proposal had not come before the panel and that he could not comment.
A model of the Gehry design had been displayed in Mr. Krens's office. It showed a cloudlike shape out of which the building rose irregularly to a maximum height of about 45 stories. The structure was on a platform above the piers.
The 10-page Guggenheim financial memorandum, sent anonymously to The New York Times and authenticated by the museum, also cites plans for two other Guggenheim projects, an arts and technology center on piers in Brooklyn Heights and exhibit space on Governors Island, which the city has been seeking to redevelop since the United States Coast Guard abandoned the island a year ago.
Judith Cox, a deputy director of the museum to whom the June 24 memorandum was addressed, acknowledged receiving it from its author, Beverly M. Wolff, a museum consultant, but said that Ms. Wolff merely "speculated on the potential development of related sites, including Brooklyn."
Ms. Cox added: "That memo represents purely internal ideas that emerged from a brainstorming session. They were entirely speculative and have not been developed."
Ms. Wolff did not respond to a message left on her home telephone last night.
Mr. Krens has taken the Guggenheim into a vigorous expansionist phase, adding far-flung branches to its core location on Fifth Avenue at 89th Street. Last year he explored building a Gehry-designed museum on Pier 40 on the Hudson River off Houston Street. But other groups had already made recreational proposals for the site, and with city and state officials miffed that the Guggenheim had not cleared its plans with them beforehand, the idea languished.
The new concept for the East River site was submitted to the Economic Development Commission in February in response to a request for proposals inviting bidders interested in developing the site. The property includes three piers: 9, which is decrepit; and 13 and 14, with tennis bubbles on them. A fourth pier, 11, is being retained by the city as a ferry terminal, but would be integrated into the Guggenheim plan.
Museum officials have briefed some outsiders on aspects of the plan on a confidential basis, and yesterday Newsweek published a short account of the project.
Ms. Wolff's memorandum was titled "Naming Opportunities for the Manhattan Projects." While suggesting how big donors might be attracted to a $700 million fund-raising campaign, Ms. Wolff enumerated the features of the Gehry building, which would serve as a largely autonomous branch of the museum's flagship, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright. The Guggenheim already has a SoHo annex, which the museum has periodically considered closing.
In addition to exhibition wings and galleries, she wrote, the building would include a theater that could be sponsored by an entertainment giant like Sony, Samsung or Warner Brothers; a grand entry hall and visitor's center; an arts education center; a sculpture or photography gallery; a film department; a library and study center; an entertainment hall or boardroom, and a members' lounge. The memorandum also cited a new department of architecture and design, suggesting that the Guggenheim might be moving into a field long identified with the Museum of Modern Art. Outside there would be a promenade, sculpture garden, park and skating rink.
The other projects mentioned were a proposed Center for Arts and Technology envisioned for piers 1 through 5 in Brooklyn Heights, and eight "pavilions" on Governors Island, where the Guggenheim would display art.
Ms. Wolff urged the museum to seek three "founders" who together could put up $450 million, just over half the latest anticipated cost. Although the Guggenheim has not approached the city for money, the Museum of Modern Art has been promised $65 million in city money for its $650 million expansion and the Guggenheim could be expected to request the same 10 percent contribution, or about $85 million.
Ms. Wolff argued against seeking to name each project for one large donor. "Rather," she wrote, "I would recommend that serious consideration be given to using generic names for each complex, with naming opportunities relating only to parts of the complex." Thus, she noted, the wings and each gallery within them could be separately named.
She added, "Donors could possibly be enticed by naming the architect if different architects are used, selecting the architect from a list of 'approved architects.' "
Paul Goldstein, the district manager of Community Board 1 in lower Manhattan, said that he had heard only in general that the Guggenheim was a bidder for the site, along with operators of a floating theater and hotel, a youth hostel, a cruise-ship dock, an aquarium and tennis courts, among other uses. The board advises the Manhattan Borough President on planning issues.
"The E.D.C. had told us to expect a decision by June," Mr. Goldstein said. Asked how the community might react to the museum's proposal, Mr. Goldstein said that residents primarily sought parks and open space. "We didn't want any kind of structure more than a few stories," he said. Forty or so stories, he said, was "huge." But he perked up at the mention of Mr. Gehry, whom he called admiringly "that architect with the great reputation."
 http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Gehry's proposed museum would rise from a cloudlike form. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, MUSEUM (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (55%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); WRITERS (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); CRUISES (67%); 

PERSON: BLUMENTHAL, RALPH; VOGEL, CAROL FRANK GEHRY (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1999



637 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 8; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK;
For Fall, 3 Reds That Won't Break the Bank

BYLINE: By Frank J. Prial 

 BODY:
WINEMAKERS are harvesting their grapes this month, their heads full of ideas for wines that will come to market in a year or so. In the spirit of such forward thinking, what better time to freshen your collection for the coming months? 
 Here are three handsome wines -- reds from Italy, France and California -- that will complement hearty autumn meals. And their merits include their moderate prices.
Antinori Santa Cristina 1998, Tuscany, Italy. About $9.
Once designated a Chianti Classico, Santa Cristina was dropped to a table wine in 1987. This did not mean that Santa Cristina's quality had dropped, but that Chianti Classico's was shooting up, a win-win situation.
The wine, which has been in the Antinori portfolio since 1946, is named for a family vineyard in the Chianti region. The name of the principal grape, sangiovese, was added to the label in 1991, probably because the United States is a good market and Americans are used to seeing grape names on their wines. In 1994, Antinori edged away from the classic Chianti blend by substituting merlot for the canaiolo grape. The blend now is 90 percent sangiovese, 10 percent merlot. This is a simple, straightforward and very tasty wine. It's a good buy and widely available.
Pellegrini Family Vineyards Pinot Noir 1997, Olivet Lane Estate, Russian River Valley, California. About $20.
As evidenced here, it's getting so that the title of some wines is often as long -- if not as boring -- as the description. Actually, this is a good thing. It shows that California winemakers have recognized that the vineyard is paramount, that all the stainless steel gadgetry in a winery doesn't make much difference if the grapes are not first-class.
This wine has two things going for it. First, the grapes come from the Pelligrinis' Olivet Lane Vineyard, which has provided fruit for some spectacular wines, including some memorable Williams & Selyem pinots that regularly turn up at auctions at staggering prices. And it was made by Merry Edwards, a pinot noir expert who knows how to bring the very best out in the fruit.
At 13.8 percent alcohol, this is a big wine, particularly for a pinot noir, but it holds together beautifully and should age well.
Chateau Lagrezette 1996, Cahors, France. About $20.
No one has worked harder to put the wines of Cahors, in southwest France, on the map than Alain-Dominique Perrin, the owner of the magnificent Chateau Lagrezette. Mr. Perrin was for many years president of Cartier, the jewelry house, and currently is head of the Vendome Luxury Group, which includes Cartier, Alfred Dunhill and several other luxury-goods producers.
From his investment over the years in Lagrezette, it's apparent that he maintains the same high standards for his wine as he does for his jewelry. To that end, he consults regularly with Michel Rolland, one of Bordeaux's best-known enologists.
Cahors wines long had a reputation for off-putting intensity. By adding up to 20 percent merlot to the classic Cahors grape, the malbec -- called auxerrois in this part of France -- Mr. Rolland has produced a full-bodied but nicely rounded wine with a pleasant and distinctive bouquet.
AMONG my mail recently was a letter from Ted Conklin, owner and manager of the American Hotel in Sag Harbor, N.Y. Mr. Conklin, who transformed a faded hotel into a popular inn and restaurant, and who also has one of the most sophisticated wine cellars in the country, took issue with a recent column that discussed the many factors that go into the cost of a bottle of wine in a restaurant. The column pointed out that a large majority of whatever the customer pays goes to the restaurateur, with the winemaker often receiving less than 50 cents for a bottle that can cost the consumer 100 times that amount.
Most restaurant owners I talked to said they were merely passing along high costs imposed on them by the distributors, or that high wine prices were the only way to subsidize the costs of food and its preparation.
Mr. Conklin noted that while price-gouging may exist, "restaurants either make prices fair or they fail -- in the best of capitalistic traditions. Competition has already established the fair-market value for wines. This is especially true for restaurants."
He objected to any comparison of the net profit of wineries and a wine's markup in restaurants, because net profits, he said, are calculated after such costs as salaries, land and travel expenses are paid. And wineries, he pointed out, "enjoy significant tax advantages from depreciation and agricultural subsidy."
Restaurants, he continued, "aren't even on the same planet." If a restaurant sells a thousand bottles of wine at a profit of $33.50 a bottle, he noted, "it has $33,500 to pay" for serving the wine "in 3,000 to 4,000 wine glasses, a lot of which break."
"Do you want your readers to believe," he asked, "that restaurateurs should feel guilty about their wine profits and the consumer should sympathize with Robert Mondavi and Ravenswood?"
Actually, neither. But the fact remains that wine prices are appallingly high. More and more money is chasing a small and unchanging amount of fine wine. When the economy cools down and demand drops off, the winemakers will lower their prices; they always do. And restaurateurs like Mr. Conklin will surely follow suit. And all polemics aside, it can't happen soon enough.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Merle Nacht)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); ITALY (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: VENDOME LUXURY GROUP PLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); ITALY (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES WINE (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINERIES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (83%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J TED CONKLIN (65%); ALAIN-DOMINIQUE PERRIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



638 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: On a New Year's Eve For the Ages, Some Restaurants Will Sit It Out

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
JO JO, the deluxe Upper East Side restaurant, celebrated New Year's Eve in characteristic style last year: it opened early and kept going until 5 A.M., offering a fixed-price dinner of $500 a head, plus wine. The restaurant was packed, for each of two seatings, as night turned to dawn.
And how will Jo Jo mark the New Year's Eve ushering in the year 2000? By shutting down for the night. The chef, Jean-Georges Vongerichten, is locking up Jo Jo and his four other New York restaurants and flying to Bali to spend his first New Year's Eve out of the kitchen in 27 years. 
 And that is not unusual. While many restaurants are planning extravagantly prepared and stratospherically priced meals to mark the passing of the 1900's, a growing number of New York's best restaurants have quietly decided to stay dark for the night. Gramercy Tavern, Union Pacific, Union Square Cafe, Balthazar, Vong, Mercer Kitchen, Le Bernardin, Eleven Madison, Tabla, Judson Grill, Aquavit, the Oyster Bar at Grand Central Terminal and Verbena are among those turning away people calling for a reservation. Other restaurateurs are considering shutting down on one of the year's most profitable nights, weighing the financial benefits against this year's unusual complications.
The reasons reflect the anxiety felt by New Yorkers in general as they contemplate the approaching New Year's Eve.
Most obviously, there is the fear of rowdiness and drunken revelers harassing customers and employees, especially in restaurants anywhere near Times Square. (The owners of the Local, a plush new restaurant on West 47th Street, are not only closing, but even boarding up the windows to guard against rowdies.) Beyond that, some of New York's most experienced restaurateurs are worried about customer expectations that can never be met, employees who would resent having to work and the promise of high-priced everything -- Champagne, caviar, entertainment -- cutting down the profit margin and stirring the resentment of their regular clientele because of the inevitably huge tabs.
"We foresee a lot of problems with the night," said Chris Cannon, the general manager of Judson Grill, the highly rated restaurant on West 52d Street, in the heart of the district where streets will be closed to traffic. "Our attitude is, how much money can you make in one night? We have a lack of confidence in people getting to the restaurant effectively, about how much business are we going to do and concern for our own staff."
Danny Meyer, the owner of Gramercy Tavern, Union Square Cafe, Eleven Madison and Tabla, said he had decided to close his restaurants after concluding that there was no way he could meet "the overblown expectations" that people were sure to bring in the door. "Somebody is not going to get the best table in the restaurant," Mr. Meyer said. "Someone is not going to like the size of the piece of foie gras and the dollop of caviar or the band you picked.
"It's got to be the best night out that you've ever had in your life, or it's a failure. The evening is going to cost so much money, and people are going to feel so ripped off anyway, so why do it? If we weren't going to make money, if we weren't going to make our guests happy, if we weren't going to make our staff happy, then why open?"
Not surprisingly, word that some restaurateurs are taking the night off (or like Le Cirque 2000, opening but donating the proceeds to charity) is stirring some resentment among those restaurateurs who are looking forward to what has always been one of the biggest moneymaking nights of the year. "The minute they say, 'We're not opening, we want to be fair to our employees,' that is a really unfair thing to do to everyone else," said Drew Nieporent, whose restaurants include Montrachet, Nobu, Layla, TriBeCa Grill and Berkeley Bar and Grill. "Also, to create the charitable thing, I respect that, I really do. But we live by the adage that the show must go on. This is an important day for us. That's the way we pay our bills. If we all wanted to play hooky on a major holiday, what would happen?"
Whatever the reason, closing on New Year's Eve could not have been an easy decision, at least to judge by the menu prices that have been announced so far. Lespinasse is charging $2,500 a person for its late-night dinner, including wine and service. (If that's too pricey, there's a discounted meal of just $1,700 a head, with a more modest selection of wines.)
Dinner at Daniel will be $1,250, plus wine. At Chanterelle, Karen and David Waltuck are planning a black-tie dinner, which will include a wine from each decade of the 20th century, at a cost of around $2,500 a head. "This only happens once in a while, right?" Ms. Waltuck observed. "It's a pretty big nut to crack for our clients. But I figured I should go all out." (So far, reservations can still be booked at most of these high-price restaurants.)
It is also doubtful that any restaurant would have any problem selling out: letting someone else do the work has always been the best way to have fun on New Year's Eve. Sirio Maccioni, the owner of Le Cirque 2000, said that 1,000 people had already called to put themselves on his New Year's Eve waiting list, even though he has yet to announce a single detail about the night, from menu to cost.
But the economic incentives to open are less strong this year than usual. For one, there's the expected high cost of supplies for the night. For another, this has been a good year in the business, which means that owners can afford to take a night off.
"We've had a great year at Aquavit," said Hakan Swahn, the owner of the Scandinavian restaurant in midtown. "I feel the least we can do is say to our staff that worked, 'It's the millennium, enjoy yourself: we'll see you in the next millennium.' "
And the prospective profits are being weighed against a growing concern among business owners in New York, who are beginning to worry about just what the streets of Manhattan will be like that evening. "The level of clientele that we cater to is not going to be frequenting Times Square on New Year's," said Franklin Becker, the chef at the Local on West 47th Street. "The people that are going to be here are going to be transients. They are going to be young kids with ill motives that aren't going to be able to afford our restaurant. Quite frankly, to put our guests at risks or to put anyone at risk, including our employees, for one evening, it just doesn't make any sense for us. We're putting braces behind the windows."
Joe Bastianich, an owner of Babbo, said he had not made a decision on what, if anything, to do. "Is the potential downside worth the potential revenue?" he asked. "The danger to people? I don't know what it's going to be like."
In the end, for all the concern voiced by restaurant owners, there does appear to be an ultimate factor nudging these restaurateurs to spend the night someplace else. After all, this is a millennial moment. Who wants to work?
Mr. Vongerichten, for instance, is designing the menu for a particularly large celebration at the Javits Center but has no plans to be near Manhattan that night. "I never took off a New Year's Eve," he said. "I deserve it. I'm giving it to myself."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UNP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; NEW YEAR; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) RESTAURANTS (92%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); CLOSINGS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); 

PERSON: MEYER, DANNY; VONGERICHTEN, JEAN-GEORGES; NAGOURNEY, ADAM CHRIS CANNON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



639 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Give That Man a Cigar

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: HAVANA

 BODY:
American foreign policy toward Cuba is really unique among U.S. foreign policies. It isn't just 15 degrees off. It has the distinction of being 360 degrees wrong.
That is, the longstanding U.S. boycott and isolation of Cuba is a failed policy if your desire is to punish Cuba's people so they will oust Fidel Castro, and it is a failed policy if your desire is to ease the pain on Cuba's people while they wait for Mr. Castro to pass away. It is a failed policy if you think we should be preparing for a post-Castro Cuba. And it is a failed policy if you think we should be trying to bring down Mr. Castro today. It is a failed policy if you believe in human rights, and it is a failed policy if you believe only in trade. 
 With Mr. Castro having celebrated his 40th anniversary in power, it's safe to say U.S. policy hasn't worked in any direction. And no wonder. It's not really a policy. It's an attitude -- a blind hunger for revenge against Mr. Castro by a small, exile Cuban-American minority residing largely in Florida, and a blind hunger for campaign contributions from this Cuban minority by U.S. Congressmen.
What would a sensible Cuba policy look like? First, it would acknowledge that the unilateral U.S. boycott of Cuba has not weakened the regime. Cuba can still trade with 160 other countries. Does that mean Cuba's economy is flourishing? No, but not because of our boycott. It isn't flourishing for the same reason that the Soviet economy crumbled -- because Communism doesn't work. Communism is great for producing missiles, but terrible when it comes to breakfast, lunch and dinner. What ails the Cuban economy is the internal embargo here, the self-imposed sanctions that come from Cuba still adhering to failed Marxist economics.
The only thing the U.S. embargo does is obscure that fact and give the regime another excuse for remaining iron-fisted. Mr. Castro argues to his people that they are under siege from America, therefore they have to remain mobilized and can't loosen up.
Make no mistake, this is a repressive regime. It has taught its people to read in record numbers, but won't allow them to read what they want; it has educated its people better than anywhere in the Caribbean, but won't allow them to speak freely; it is a worker's paradise where people still have to live off ration books. But it is a repressive regime led by a charismatic figure who knows how to stay in power. Which is why a wise U.S. policy today would be focused primarily on shaping the post-Castro Cuba, so that we don't have another Haiti -- where, after the regime collapses, everyone tries to build a raft for Miami -- and the Cuban people don't have another 40 years of repression.
Last July the U.S. diplomatic mission here held a lottery for 20,000 immigration visas to the U.S. It received in 30 days 541,000 applications. That meant that roughly one-tenth of the total eligible population of Cuba applied to leave. Imagine the scramble to get out if Mr. Castro suddenly goes. There are no trade unions here, no free non-governmental organizations, no business groups -- none of the elements of civil society that hold a country in place. It is Haiti waiting to happen, only closer to our shores.
By not helping Cuba develop a transition system that can lead to a soft landing after Mr. Castro (who is 73), we are insuring a hard landing. Our best tool for shaping post-Castro Cuba is engaging with Cuba now: letting more Cubans study in the U.S., training their technocrats to run a modern state, and, yes, opening the way for some U.S. investment and trade.
Sure, in the short term Mr. Castro would use any openness to his advantage. But he's using our boycott to his advantage already. The difference is what U.S. engagement with Cuba would produce in the long run. At a minimum it would put pressure on Mr. Castro to ease the human rights abuses, by making it much more difficult for him to justify continued repression. And at a maximum it would help lay the foundations of a Cuban economy that could thrive in the future, and insure that whoever succeeds Mr. Castro has to be more open.
Everywhere you turn here you see American influence -- despite the boycott. They love our Chevys, they love American dollars, they love American baseball, and they love American democracy. American values permeate this place without even trying. Imagine what would happen if we actually tried.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HAITI (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; RUSSIA; CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HAITI (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOYCOTTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US FOREIGN POLICY (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TRENDS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); POLITICS (66%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (92%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



640 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
YEN STEADY. The yen held steady against the dollar, staying near a one-week low amid speculation that the Bank of Japan would increase the money supply. In New York, the dollar rose to 106.10 yen, from 106 on Monday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since April 1998. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); MONEY SUPPLY (86%); TRENDS (83%); 

PERSON: YEN STEADY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



641 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
Justices to Rule on Right of Women to Sue Their Attackers

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28

 BODY:
Taking up a case with broad implications for its continuing reappraisal of Federal power, the Supreme Court agreed today to decide whether Congress had the authority to open the Federal courts to civil lawsuits by victims of rape, domestic violence and other crimes "motivated by gender."
At stake is the fate of a 1994 law, the Violence Against Women Act, which Congress passed after concluding, on the basis of four years of hearings, that state court systems were not dealing adequately with an epidemic of violence against women. The law created a new Federal civil remedy, permitting victims to sue their attackers for damages, including punitive damages. 
 In a ruling last March, the Federal appeals court in Richmond declared the law unconstitutional and dismissed a suit brought by a Virginia college student against two fellow students, football players who she contended had raped her in her dormitory room shortly after the start of her freshman year in 1994.
The suit, filed by Christy Brzonkala, was the first to be brought under the law's civil damages provision, and has been watched closely on its journey through the courts. The two men defended against the suit by arguing that the civil damages section of the law exceeded Congress's authority to assert Federal jurisdiction over matters of traditional state concern. One defendant was eventually punished by Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University with a deferred suspension that let him complete his college football career; the university's judicial committee took no action against the other.
The decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit striking down the law was cast in very broad terms, with Judge J. Michael Luttig, writing for the 7-to-4 majority in a 168-page opinion, declaring that the Violence Against Women Act "simply cannot be reconciled with the principles of limited Federal government upon which this nation is founded."
The ruling held that because violence against women had only "an attenuated and indirect relationship with interstate commerce," the law was not a proper exercise of Congressional authority under the Constitution's commerce clause. Nor was the law a valid exercise of Congress's authority to enforce the equal protection guarantee of the 14th Amendment, the Fourth Circuit held, because the law sought to regulate purely private conduct rather than the state action at which the 14th Amendment is directed.
Both these broad propositions place the case in the center of the Court's continuing debate over defining the boundary between Federal and state authority. In a series of decisions over the last four years, culminating in June with three handed down on the final day of the Court's term, the Court invoked principles of federalism and sovereign immunity to circumscribe the power of Congress to identify problems in need of uniform national solutions.
The Clinton Administration appealed the Fourth Circuit decision, as did the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, which has represented Ms. Brzonkala in the case. The Justices combined the two appeals, United States v. Morrison, No. 99-5, and Brzonkala v. Morrison, No. 99-29, and will hear the case in January. The Court had already scheduled arguments in three other federalism cases in its new term, which officially begins on Monday.
Both halves of the Fourth Circuit's analysis have implications beyond the specific law at issue. On the question of Congress's power to regulate interstate commerce, the appeals court relied on the Supreme Court's ruling in a 1995 case, United States v. Lopez, which invalidated a Federal law that made it a crime to carry a gun near a school. In that case, the Justices said that the activity involved did not have a "substantial relation to interstate commerce."
In passing the Violence Against Women Act, Congress found that such violence did affect the economy by, for example, limiting women's participation in the labor force. However, the Fourth Circuit rejected those findings, raising the question of the extent to which Federal courts should defer to the rationale offered by Congress for its actions.
The Fourth Circuit's limitations on Congressional authority to legislate under the 14th Amendment raise questions about the validity of civil rights laws enacted under that authority, since those also apply to actions by private individuals who are not "state actors." The Clinton Administration is arguing that because the states themselves have failed to address the problem of violence against women, the issue is one of official behavior and not simply of private conduct.
While the Court ordinarily waits to review a case until a disagreement has developed among the Federal appeals courts, the Justices acted today in the absence of such a conflict. The Fourth Circuit was the first appeals court to decide the constitutionality of the act, although the law has been upheld by 14 Federal District Courts.
The law is familiar to the Justices, although they have not ruled on it. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist criticized it before and after its enactment, singling it out in speeches on the new burdens that Congress was placing on the Federal courts.
This case was one of nine new appeals the Court accepted today. The cases, which will be argued in January, bring the number on the Court's calendar to 44, well over half the cases the Justices are likely to decide over the nine-month term.
These were among the other new cases:
 
Grandparents' Rights
The Court agreed to decide the constitutionality of a Washington state law giving grandparents and other "third parties" the opportunity to petition a court for visitation rights "when visitation may serve the best interest of the child."
The Washington Supreme Court, in a ruling last December, declared the law unconstitutional as violating the fundamental rights of parents not to have the state interfere with their child-rearing decisions.
Only where "the state seeks to prevent harm or a risk of harm to the child" can the parents' fundamental right be overcome, the state court said, adding that "parents should be the ones to choose whether to expose their children to certain people or ideas." Even when there is a plausible argument that continued contact with grandparents or other relatives, following a divorce or the death of one parent, would be beneficial to the child, "state intervention to better a child's quality of life through third-party visitation is not justified where the child's circumstances are otherwise satisfactory," the Washington court said.
The case, Troxel v. Granville, No. 99-138, is an appeal by the parents of a man who committed suicide after fathering two daughters by a woman to whom he was not married. After the father's death, the mother married a man who adopted the girls. The mother and her husband then sought to limit the girls' contact with their paternal grandparents, who invoked the state law and won regular visitation rights under a decision that the Washington Supreme Court then overturned.
Most states have laws permitting grandparents and others to seek visitation rights, and the state courts are split over the laws' constitutionality.
 
Abortion Protests
The Court agreed to hear a challenge to a Colorado law making it a crime to approach another person within a distance of eight feet, while in the vicinity of a health care facility, for the purpose of distributing leaflets, displaying signs or engaging in conversation unless invited to do so. The challenge was brought by three anti-abortion protesters who travel to abortion clinics around Colorado for what they call "sidewalk counseling," trying to dissuade patients from entering the clinics for their scheduled abortions.
A Supreme Court decision two years ago, in a case from Buffalo, invalidated on First Amendment grounds a portion of a court injunction that had imposed such a "floating buffer zone" to shield abortion clinic patients from protesters. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: RICHMOND, VA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US); SUPREME COURT (US)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (STATE); COLORADO; UNITED STATES (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; SEX CRIMES; DOMESTIC VIOLENCE; WOMEN; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; ABORTION LITIGATION (91%); DAMAGES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CIVIL PROCEDURE (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); WOMEN (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); APPEALS (89%); SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); JURISDICTION (78%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); STUDENT HOUSING (74%); FAMILY (74%); IMMUNITY (73%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (73%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



642 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
30-Year Issue Leads Sharp Fall in Treasuries

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The prices of Treasury securities fell sharply yesterday, raising the yield on the long bond to its highest level in several days and representing the sharpest one-day rise in more than two weeks.
Analysts noted a variety of factors contributing to the bearish tone and selloff, including selling by funds and dealers, supply, technical factors and a surge in the prices of gold and other commodities. 
 Even weakness in the Dow Jones industrial stock average, which was down more than 200 points at one point in the day, was unable to provide much sustained support. Traders also suggested that the supply of new debt had a hand in downward price pressures. Buying was limited as dealers set up hedges in advance of Fannie Mae's $5.3 billion bond sale.
In addition to drawing investors away from Treasury securities, government bonds can also fall during large debt sales because dealers often sell their most liquid assets, like Treasuries, as a hedge against losses should the market take a downturn before the deal is done.
The 30-year Treasury fell a full point yesterday, to 100 19/32, while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.08 percent, from 6.01 percent on Monday.
The two-part issue from Fannie Mae, the nation's largest buyer of home loans, drew enough demand that Fannie Mae was able to increase its planned sale by more than 30 percent. The five-year notes were priced to yield about 59 basis points more than a Treasury security with a similar maturity and the 30-year bond was priced to yield more than 81 basis points over the Government bond. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Dan Antonellis, market strategist for Briefing.com in Burlingame, Calif., said yesterday's Treasury market was driven by factors that included the surge in gold prices, which affected the longer maturities, as well as rumors of hedge-fund selling on the long end of the market.
Other metals, in addition to gold, also climbed, stoking investor fears that rising prices would also increase inflation and force the Fed into action.
"There was decent bid to the front end, or shorter maturities in the market due to the weakness in stocks, as investors put a premium on shorter issues," Mr. Antonellis said. "But the flight to quality today has not been enough to keep the bond market in positive territory because the market has been burned on so many occasions this year."
The Treasury plans to sell $15 billion of new two-year notes today. In when-issued trading late yesterday, the notes were offered at a price to yield 5.61 percent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); BRIEFING.COM (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (53%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INFLATION (78%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); INTEREST RATES (59%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DAN ANTONELLIS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



643 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
White House and I.M.F. Give Ecuador the Cold Shoulder

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28

 BODY:
For five years now the Clinton Administration has gone to extraordinary lengths to keep countries from defaulting on loans to investors around the world, fearing that national bankruptcy can set off political upheaval and international economic chaos.
That is why the White House bailed out Mexico in 1995, and why Washington moved the financial heavens to rescue Thailand and South Korea (successfully) and Indonesia and Russia (not exactly victories for American-style capitalism). 
 So it was more than a little curious that when tiny Ecuador, hardly a strategic player in the post-cold-war world, finally drove off a financial cliff this week, there was no one extending a net to cushion the fall. Inside the United States Treasury, the central command post in this era of global economic diplomacy, the message was that Ecuador got its just deserts. For months it has been ignoring warnings that it could no longer delay some enormously tough political choices. Instead, it declared it could not -- and would not -- pay many of the investors who had bought the country's Brady bonds.
That was exactly the message the new Treasury Secretary, Lawrence H. Summers, wanted to send to those investors. Since the Asian economic crisis ebbed, Mr. Summers has warned over and over again about the dangers of complacency, and said the United States and the International Monetary Fund would not always step in to rescue countries or their lenders. Finally, he proved it.
"Sooner or later, investors are going to discover that the world isn't always going to step in to stop a default," one senior Administration official said. "And if they understand it sooner, it might prevent a bigger crisis."
Much has changed since the last time the world's finance ministers and central bankers clogged Washington with their limousines for the annual meetings of the I.M.F. and World Bank. Back then the world seemed on the precipice of economic disaster. Russia had just devalued its currency, Wall Street was swooning, hedge funds were going under and the Federal Reserve was cutting interest rates to breathe life back into the world economy.
This year, those finance ministers and central bankers, bellying up to the appetizers at receptions all over the city, are congratulating themselves for the wisdom of their world-saving chess moves last year. The Governor of the Bank of France talked this morning about handing out "coups de chapeau" -- tips of the hat -- to Asia and to the I.M.F. and World Bank. Several of his colleagues from other countries talked about last year in the giddy terms of survivors of a plane crash.
All this has Mr. Summers worried, and at every opportunity he warns against the dangers of complacency and says the biggest thing the world should fear is "the lack of fear itself." So Ecuador was a chance to create a little fear in the markets.
 
China Clams Up
As the ministers toasted each other, the Chinese dithered and danced. On Monday, China's negotiator over the country's entry into the World Trade Organization, Shi Guangsheng, arrived in Washington, met with Charlene Barshefsky, the United States trade representative, and offered -- well, absolutely nothing new. Then he flew back to Beijing, in time for the 50th anniversary of the People's Republic.
Ms. Barshefsky and her colleagues in the Administration are clearly mystified. For the last few months they have assumed that China's reluctance to negotiate on the terms of its entry to the group -- a deal nearly completed in April, until President Clinton walked away -- was part of some great tactical plan hatched in Beijing.
The theory was that the Chinese, by waiting, were hoping to translate the American guilt over the bombing of their embassy in Belgrade into easier terms for entering the W.T.O. They wanted Mr. Clinton to ask China publicly to come back to the table -- exactly what he did two weeks ago in New Zealand, at a meeting with President Jiang Zemin. The meeting here was supposed to make progress.
It didn't.
Now some in the Administration wonder if Ms. Barshefsky's decision to publish a list of China's concessions in April was what one senior White House official calls "a huge mistake." Clearly it made Prime Minister Zhu Rongji vulnerable to conservative forces who want to kill any effort to allow foreign competitors equal footing in China. The question is whether those conservatives have the upper hand now, and that China is no longer willing to open up.
"Anybody who tells you they understand the Chinese strategy here isn't telling you the truth," one official deeply involved in the negotiations said today. "In fact, we can't figure out whether the Chinese know themselves what they want to do."

Going to Bat for Russia
Neither Congress nor the White House is in any mood these days to give financial aid to the money-laundering Russians, or the corruption-ridden Indonesians, especially after the bloodshed of East Timor. Today the head of the I.M.F., Michel Camdessus, had a pretty clear response: Get over it. Some countries are too big to cut off.
Speaking about Russia at the opening session of the I.M.F. today, Mr. Camdessus said, "it would be the height of irresponsibility to turn our back on this great nation; we will not do that." He urged that all the allegations of misappropriation of funds should be weighed against seven years of "real progress," and added that no one should "ignore the fundamental decision, on which Russia has not wavered, to seek to develop a modern market economy and integrate itself into the international community."
He was somewhat less enthused about the progress of change in Indonesia, but clearly was anticipating that the election of a new president would free up the I.M.F.'s coffers once again. And he talked more about rebuilding East Timor than rebuilding Ecuador. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (92%); THAILAND (91%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; TREASURY DEPARTMENT; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION LAWRENCE H STEIN (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; TREASURY DEPARTMENT; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ECUADOR; CHINA; YUGOSLAVIA; RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (96%); INDONESIA (92%); THAILAND (91%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (78%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MONEY LAUNDERING; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); BONDS (78%); COLD WAR (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MONEY LAUNDERING (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); POLITICS (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); TRENDS (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); DEVALUATION (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%); CURRENCIES (62%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (SEC); BARSHEFSKY, CHARLENE (US TRADE REPR); SHI GUANGSHENG (MIN); ZHU RONGJI (PRIME MIN); CAMDESSUS, MICHEL LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



644 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
At Atlantic Monthly, a Tense Staff Sizes Up the New Owner

BYLINE: By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
The Atlantic Monthly in Boston on Monday afternoon, staff members huddled around to hear the grim news.
There was the crackle of interstate static. Then, the disembodied voice of Mortimer B. Zuckerman, the New York real estate baron who has owned the magazine since 1980, wafted tinnily through the room: he was selling the magazine, a 142-year-old cultural institution that printed the first words of Emerson and Thoreau. 
 The news did not go over well -- partly because it was delivered from Mr. Zuckerman via speakerphone, "which was truly a postmodern experience," one staff member said with a sniff. More important, though, the staff was upset to learn that William Whitworth, the editor who has steered the magazine for two decades, would be replaced by someone unknown to them, a Washington editorial upstart, Michael Kelly.
But the tension was eased considerably by the soothing presence of the new owner of the barely profitable monthly. He is David G. Bradley, chairman of a little-known research company, the Advisory Board, and a little-known media company, the National Journal Group, both based in Washington. A self-effacing multimillionaire, Mr. Bradley, 46, speaks in tones so dulcet he sounds more like a sympathetic psychotherapist -- or the sweet-natured Mr. Rogers of television fame, perhaps -- than the ferocious new media mogul on the block.
When he arrived at the magazine's headquarters yesterday to confront a tearful staff at a noontime meeting, Mr. Bradley smoothed ruffled feathers with such expertise and assurance that the managing editor, Cullen Murphy, said employees who had been angry or fearful were suddenly smiling. Mr. Bradley promised not to change the editorial direction of the magazine; he also said he had no immediate plans to change the makeup of the staff or move the offices to Washington. "Everyone felt a lot better after the meeting," Mr. Murphy said said. "I did not expect that."
At a time when most magazines that purport to address any intellectual subject -- The New Republic, The Nation, Harper's, The Atlantic Monthly -- are either supported by foundations or eke out a small profit, Mr. Bradley may turn out to be the cowboy in the white 10-gallon hat. If he can turn The Atlantic Monthly into a profitable venture that retains its original sense of mission -- delivering poetry, criticism and literature along with provocative international and political reporting, a mixture that has earned it nine prestigious National Magazine Awards in two decades -- he may prove that magazines with an intellectual bent have a chance of economic survival.
Under Mr. Zuckerman's watch, an executive who works for his real estate company said, The Atlantic Monthly typically lost $500,000 in a bad year and earned $500,000 in a good year. But Mr. Bradley, who with a law degree from Georgetown University and an M.B.A. from Harvard is at his core a businessman, did not spend $17 million -- the figure cited by executives on both sides of the transaction -- to produce a magazine that loses money.
Mr. Bradley seemed an unlikely candidate for media stardom until a few years ago. The Advisory Board, the company he founded in 1979 -- equipped with four card tables and four Princess telephones, in his mother's Watergate apartment -- is, in Mr. Bradley's words, "a for-profit think tank." The company does research for 3,000 American corporations in fields ranging from banking to universities to health care.
It was his purchase of the National Journal Group from the Times Mirror Company in 1997 that transformed his growing empire from one of policy research to one of politics and media savvy.
Among the publications it owns are National Journal, a weekly magazine of government and politics that has won two National Magazine Awards; Government Executive, a monthly about government management; The Almanac of American Politics; The Hotline, a daily Web-based publication covering political reporting, and Congress Daily, a daily report from Capitol Hill.
National Journal, with a circulation of 7,000 and an annual subscription price of $1,047, has a tiny audience. But since Mr. Bradley raised the editorial budget by 50 percent and hired Mr. Kelly, the deposed editor of The New Republic, to be editor in chief, National Journal has attracted well-known writers like the legal analyst Stuart Taylor; William Powers, who had been a press critic for The Washington Post, and Carl Cannon, a former White House correspondent for The Baltimore Sun.
"It's a safe test of entering into the magazine field," Mr. Bradley said, speaking of National Journal. "It's got a significant but limited readership. So you can make mistakes and people will still be forgiving. But how do you step forward into a much more frightening space? The Atlantic Monthly is a retail magazine where you're not allowed to charge a thousand dollars for a subscription and when you make mistakes you will be a source of joy to people who like to read about stumbling."
National Journal had one such moment in April, when Mr. Taylor found himself in a conflict-of-interest battle after it was disclosed that he had considered going to work for Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel. Mr. Taylor made apologies on every talk show in existence, turning his stumble into an unwitting public-relations coup for the magazine.
In February, Mr. Bradley took part of his company public, netting him $142 million. With his status as multimillionaire, and with the National Journal Group and The Atlantic Monthly under his belt, he has assured his spot in media moguldom.
"Goodness!" he shrieked in a telephone interview yesterday. "How can you say that? What is fair to say is that I have increased my share of interests in magazines. But look, Henry Luce started Time when he was in his early 20's. I'm 46." So? "I think you need to start younger."
Mr. Kelly, who will be editor in chief of The Atlantic Monthly, said he had no plans to change anything. "Making a business out of creating and selling a great magazine -- a magazine that consciously exists on a pretty high plane and does not dumb itself down or tart itself up -- is a pretty tough row," he said. "The identity of The Atlantic Monthly is about literature and about journalism that aspires to the level of literature. It is about the serious, untrendy, un-buzz-driven discussion of ideas. All of those things have to continue. That is what the magazine is."
Alas, the world of magazines depends for much of its revenue on the world of advertising -- an industry known for its love of that mysterious blend of public relations and cocktail-party chatter. Alan Jurmain, the media partner at Lowe & Partners/ SMS, said: "You need some form of buzz. You'd like buzz to be something that comes from within, that is authentic, and I think they have a terrific product but they haven't had the wind at their back for a long time. If this guy can create a breeze, they can be on their way."
Mr. Kelly said he would begin spending a lot of time with the magazine's staff in Boston. As for Mr. Bradley, the staff of The Atlantic Monthly is still trying to figure out just who he is.
"Isn't there a novelist named David Bradley?" said Mr. Murphy, the managing editor. "I guess that just shows where my head is at."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: David G. Bradley, who has bought the venerable Atlantic Monthly, outside the magazine's offices in Boston yesterday. (Michael Quan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC MONTHLY NATIONAL JOURNAL GROUP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTIC MONTHLY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR REAL ESTATE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); POETRY (60%); LITERARY CRITICISM (60%); 

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX; BRADLEY, DAVID G; ZUCKERMAN, MORTIMER B MICHAEL KELLY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



645 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: McCain Outlines Voucher Program and How to Pay for It

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

DATELINE: MOUNT PLEASANT, S.C., Sept. 28

 BODY:
Senator John McCain, now a full-fledged candidate for the Presidency, called today for a school voucher program that he said should be financed by cutting Federal subsidies on oil, gas, ethanol and sugar.
With Charleston Harbor and the carrier Yorktown serving as a backdrop to highlight his Vietnam War record, Mr. McCain used the occasion to link for the first time two of the major themes of his campaign, fighting special interests and providing greater school choice, and to underscore his image as war hero. 
 "Our children deserve the best education that we can make available to them, whether that learning takes place in a public, private or parochial school," Mr. McCain told an audience filled with veterans in V.F.W. caps and military metals.
"We will find the necessary money for those most in need, by taking it from those least in need," he added. "We give hundreds of millions of dollars in subsidies to the producers of ethanol, to oil and gas and sugar manufacturers who are wealthy beyond the dreams of most hard-working Americans. I challenge my opponents to join me in taking the money that we've been giving to the special interests and spend it instead on a child in need."
Mr. McCain coupled his attack on subsidies with his long-standing crusade for campaign finance reform. In his mind, reducing the influence of money in politics would reduce the pressure on Congress to finance pet projects of major contributors.
Last summer, Mr. McCain introduced a bill to finance school vouchers by cutbacks in the ethanol subsidy program, only to have it defeated in the Senate.
Today, he added oil and gas and sugar subsidies to the list of possible financing sources for school vouchers, a program favored by Republicans.
While Mr. McCain's talk was about schools and special interests, the day was also heavy in symbols of the military theme that runs through Mr. McCain's campaign: As a Navy pilot, he was a prisoner of war for five and a half years.
The setting here, the Patriots Point Naval and Maritime Museum, highlighted not only his own military history but also one that goes back three generations in his family.
The Yorktown was part of the carrier force that was commanded by Mr. McCain's grandfather, Admiral John S. McCain, and on its flight deck it carried a replica of the A-4 Skyhawk that Mr. McCain was flying when he was shot down in 1967. Men in "Comrades for McCain" T-shirts populated the crowd, and a submarine, a destroyer and a Coast Guard cutter added to the backdrop. And, as Mr. McCain spoke, a parade of military aircraft flew overhead, en route to the nearby airport.
In his speech here, Mr. McCain restated much of what he said on Monday, when he announced his candidacy in New Hampshire: Calls for higher defense spending, denunciations of economic protectionism, and stressing the need for having had "broad and deep experience" when making the "life and death decisions" as President to send troops into combat.
And while these themes produced hearty applause from the crowd of 500, the focus of the day was on Mr. McCain's plan for financing the voucher program by cutting subsidies to the ethanol, oil and gas and sugar industries. His campaign against ethanol subsidies is one reason he steered clear of the Iowa straw poll, where much of it is produced, and his attacks on oil and gas interests hit an industry that is a leading contributor to the campaign of Gov. George W. Bush of Texas.
Mr. McCain said the "biggest challenge" is to finance a voucher program, allowing students to switch to private or parochial schools, while not cutting government support to the public school system. And he said the money could be found if campaign finance reform were enacted and subsidies cut.
"Let's take that money, and instead of using it to pay off campaign contributors with special tax breaks, let's spend it on the children who have been trapped in our worst schools," Mr. McCain said. "Let's take that money, and use it to set children free, to give them an educational opportunity that can provide them with a real future."
Still, what many in the crowd said was Mr. McCain's uppermost appeal was his status as a war hero and his call for less spending on high-cost weapons systems and more spending on enlisted personnel and veterans. That Mr. McCain suffered greatly while in prison, and emerged to become a member of the Senate, was enough for many here to believe that he has the character and leadership to run the nation.
Michael Burkhold, a money manager from Charleston, said, "It's important to me that John McCain is a hero. It's important to me that we dignify the office of the President with a person who has the status of being a hero."
And Will Buddin, a real estate agent from Summerville, said he felt Mr. McCain's war experiences meant that "he can give leadership back to this country."
"It's not just giving us economic strength," Mr. Buddin added, "but for the world to look to us as a power to emulate, not to denigrate."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John McCain stood before a replica of an A-4 Skyhawk fighter plane yesterday in Mount Pleasant, S.C., at a campaign rally. Mr. McCain, a Navy pilot in the Vietnam War, was shot down in an A-4. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTION ISSUES; VOUCHERS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); ETHANOL; SUGAR; SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; PRIVATE SCHOOLS SCHOOL VOUCHERS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ETHANOL (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); VETERANS (77%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (77%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (74%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); SCHOOL CHOICE (73%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); SUGAR FARMING (72%); HISTORY (72%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); SUGAR MFG (67%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); AIRPORTS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN) JOHN MCCAIN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



646 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: Suburbia Learns It Has Paved Over the Natural Defenses to Flooding

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS with ROBERT HANLEY 

 BODY:
When the torrential rain and surging rivers from Tropical Storm Floyd drove thousands from their homes and knocked out essential infrastructure in New Jersey and the lower Hudson Valley, suburbanites there got a terrifying look at what can happen when rapid development compromises Mother Nature's fundamental system of flood control.
But as officials in a dozen devastated counties scramble to draw lessons from the recent storm, which produced some of the worst damage in the metropolitan region this century, they are seeing two different pictures, one on each side of the Hudson River. 
 In low-lying New Jersey, the worst destruction took place in known flood plains, leading to quick and unambiguous plans to redesign or relocate crippled telecommunications centers in high-risk areas and push forward with a stalled Federal flood control project that should protect communities on the Raritan River.
In hilly Westchester, Rockland and Putnam Counties, by contrast, the damage was more random, often the result of aging storm drainage systems, which were overwhelmed by swollen streams and brooks. But the solutions are murkier than in the New Jersey flood plain, since the culverts and storm drains that exploded like water cannons in New York's northern suburbs have performed reliably under less extreme circumstances and would not necessarily be the same ones to fail in a comparable storm.
Communities on both sides of the river shared a wake-up call about the hidden costs of development, particularly New Jersey's commercial building boom of the last two decades. Floyd reminded them, or showed them for the first time, how paving what was once green with malls, office parks and new residential communities makes the ground less porous in times of flood. And the storm brought home the importance of regional planning in communities accustomed to going their own way.
Residential development is nothing new in these parts, said James W. Hughes, dean of the School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. But the 1980's and 1990's have produced both accelerated home-building and the proliferation of office parks, he said.
"More of the region is at risk as we spread the economy out," Dean Hughes said, noting that New Jersey has seen an 80 percent increase in office inventory since the 1980's, or 110 million square feet. That is equal to the entire office inventory in Houston, he said.
The deluge that accompanied Tropical Storm Floyd would have caused problems under any circumstances. In New Jersey, according to the National Hurricane Center, a downpour of those dimensions can be expected once ever 200 years and in the Lower Hudson Valley once every 100 years. No estimate of total damage is available.
"It came like a tidal wave," said Mayor Frank J. Gilly of Bound Brook, N.J., a 74-year-old resident of the region's hardest-hit community. "I've never seen anything like it."
Bound Brook, where the Raritan River crested at 41 feet, was a predictable trouble spot, sitting in the flood plain, hammered to a lesser extent by earlier storms and plagued by increasing run-off problems due to intensive development since the late 1980's in western Somerset County. "We just can't force another town to have a moratorium on construction," Mayor Gilly said. "But we catch all the drainage."
The Army Corps of Engineers had begun planning for a flood control system of dikes and berms after a severe storm in 1971. But the project was stalled by environmental opposition and political infighting. As it happens, the disputes were resolved this year, the permits issued and the work scheduled to begin in the spring. Mayor Gilly estimated that the dikes and berms would have held back about 80 percent of the water.
Also in a flood plain and thus a sure bet for damage was a Bell Atlantic telecommunications hub in Rochelle Park, a quarter-mile from New Jersey's Saddle River. It was inundated, burying critical wiring in the basement under six feet of water and knocking out telephone service to about a million local customers and to 8,000 automated teller machines throughout the country. Flood waters also swamped an adjacent AT&T building that handles wireless calls for parts of New Jersey, New York and Connecticut.
Both buildings went up before the area was declared a flood plain by the Federal Government. After that declaration, Bell Atlantic built a two-and-a-half-foot concrete berm at the riverside of the building and then added a five-foot bank of dirt as Floyd bore down. AT&T, for its part, stopped putting up new buildings in flood plains and decided the equipment in Rochelle Park was too heavy to move upstairs safely.
Both companies made quick reassessments after Floyd. Bell Atlantic executives announced that all power equipment would be moved to the upper floors of the eight-story building. AT&T executives said they would move all switching equipment to other locations in the metropolitan area, out of the flood plain.
Also in the Raritan flood plain is the 68-year-old Elizabethtown Water Company's treatment plant, it, too, constructed before the Federal designation but secured by 40-foot dirt berms after the damaging storm in 1971. Three years ago, a sister plant was built across the river on high ground, which saved the center of the state from a total water shutdown. The new plant, untouched by Floyd's flooding, will be enlarged and take on the lion's share of pumping.
In the lower Hudson Valley, Hillsides slid atop houses in Katonah; Piermont was buried in mudslides, and roads collapsed in Cortland. Seven Bridges Road in New Castle is now Two Bridges Road. And throughout the region, there were evacuations, downed power lines, interrupted telephone service, closed schools, flooded basements and transportation disruptions.
In Westchester, Rockland and Putnam Counties, trouble spots were less predictable than in New Jersey's flood plains and solutions less obvious. "Most of our communities survive most storms," said Anthony Landi, Westchester's Commissioner of Public Works and Environmental Facilities. "Redesigning entire systems -- I don't think you'll see that. Where do you stop? How much money do you spend?"
Home rule in New York makes each municipality responsible for its own storm drainage systems, thus work is done piecemeal, or not at all. "It's not like New York City, where Guiliani can raise his hand and part the waters," said Susan Tolchin, a spokeswoman for Andrew J. Spano, the Westchester County Executive.
In Hastings-on-Hudson, for instance, a village of 8,000, faulty storm drains were being upgraded one at a time and some were ready for Floyd and some not. Neil P. Hess, the village manager, said it would cost $36 million to upgrade all the storm sewers on 35 miles of streets. But even if the taxpayers were willing, he said: "It just doesn't pay because then we'd have to assume everybody else does the same thing. If we do it and Yonkers doesn't, for instance, we'll still wind up with flooding conditions because the systems are interconnected."
Rockland hopes to find a countywide solution by taking control of all 550 miles of local streams, according to Scott Vanderhoef, the County Executive. This would enable the county to exert more influence on development adjacent to streams and also conduct intermunicipal repair and maintenance of storm sewers, culverts and the like.
"We must insure that the region thinks regionally," Mr. Vanderhoef said. "A piece at a time doesn't do the trick."
Thanks to Floyd's rampage, help for expensive hydrology projects is now on the way from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which this week announced that the 12 counties in the region that have qualified for emergency aid would also be eligible for Federal funds to bring drainage systems, roads and the like up to modern standards, with 75 percent of the cost of approved projects coming from Washington.
Ossining, where homes, roads, businesses, and a public works garage were washed away, has already hired an engineering firm to "examine the hydrology of each failure," according to O. Paul Shaw, the village manager.
The closest thing to a flood plain in Westchester is its north-south ribbons of rivers and parallel roadways, with their aqueous names, like the Saw Mill River, Bronx River, Hutchinson River and Sprain Brook Parkways, that trace the natural downhill slope of the county. These rivers and their many nameless tributaries are known to spill their banks, and residents in the vicinity are used to flooded roadways and basements, though usually to the depth of a couple of inches rather than several feet.
One solution tried elsewhere is not an option.
After the massive Mississippi River floods of 1993, the Federal Government, the builder of dikes and insurer of last resort, persuaded at least one flooded town to relocate, at Government expense, to higher ground.
Could this be Bound Brook's future, Mr. Hughes, the planning expert at Rutgers, was asked? Impossible, was his reply. The Government would never offer buyouts where homes cost $250,000, not $25,000, he said. Plus, where could you move a town in America's most densely populated state?
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: An auto repair shop in Ossining, N.Y., collapsed during Tropical Storm Floyd. In New Jersey, damage was concentrated in a flood plain; in New York it occurred in pockets. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: BELL ATLANTIC MOBILE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); PUTNAM COUNTY (NY); ROCKLAND COUNTY (NY); RARITAN RIVER (NJ); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; HURRICANE FLOYD; WEATHER; FLOODS WEATHER (92%); TROPICAL STORMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RIVERS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); FLOOD CONTROL (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); FLOOD ZONES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

PERSON: GROSS, JANE; HANLEY, ROBERT FRANK J GILLY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



647 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12
 
Mexican Opposition Fails In Effort to Form Coalition
An opposition campaign to forge a coalition that would back a single presidential candidate collapsed, greatly increasing the chances that the Institutional Revolutionary Party, which has controlled Mexico for seven decades, would retain power in next year's election. A1
 
East Timor Leader at U.N.
Jose Alexandre Gusmao, the rebel leader known as Xanana, whom most governments want to take over East Timor once elections are held, discussed his plans for the future of an independent East Timor during a visit to the United Nations. A14 

U.S. May Get U.N. Budget Seat
The United States is likely to regain a seat on the important United Nations budget committee, clearing one hurdle that the Clinton Administration faced in getting Congress to pay dues owed to the organization, a senior American official said. A10
 
New Effort on Cyprus Conflict
The United States, after a meeting between President Clinton and the Prime Minister of Turkey, said it would send its new special envoy to Cyprus into the region to try to start talks between the two sides. A10
 
Chechnya Raids Protested
Several leading Russian opposition politicians broke ranks and called for an end to six days of Russian bombing in Chechnya. A10
 
Attack on Serbs in Kosovo
Two grenades exploded in a suburban market that was packed with Serbs, killing two people and injuring dozens, NATO officials said. A8
 
The NATO bombing campaign caused $100 billion in damages in Yugoslavia, the Foreign Minister in Belgrade said. He demanded that NATO pay the costs. A8
 
Blair Sets Labor's Course
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, in a speech intended to stir his party from any complacency over its successes, summoned Labor delegates to a crusade with the dual missions of winning the next election over the Conservatives and conquering the next century for the "progressives." A5
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A14-24
 
Bradley Offers Health Plan For Nearly All Uninsured
Former Senator Bill Bradley, who is seeking the Democratic Presidential nomination, proposed a $65 billion-a-year plan that he said would make health care available to virtually all uninsured Americans through an expansion of Federal tax subsidies and insurance programs. A1
 
A Role in the Political Spotlight
Warren Beatty is to deliver a speech tonight that friends say will touch on global trade, campaign finance and social justice -- and possibly his running for President. A1
 
G.O.P. Meeting With Buchanan
The chairman of the Republican National Committee met with Patrick J. Buchanan and appealed to him not to bolt the party and fracture Republican ranks. A22
 
C.I.A. Forms a New Company
The C.I.A. has established a venture capital company to nurture high-tech companies, hoping to insure that the nation's spies have the latest information technology in the Internet age, company executives and former C.I.A. officials said. A14
 
Congress Extends Spending
Congress, unable to pass its spending bills before the new fiscal year on Friday, resolved to keep Federal agencies functioning for three weeks while Republicans negotiate with President Clinton over hundreds of billions of dollars of spending. A24
 
Court Takes H.M.O. Case
The Supreme Court assigned itself an important role in the debate over managed health care, accepting a case on whether an Illinois H.M.O. had breached a legal duty to a patient whose appendix burst during an eight-day wait for a test to diagnose her abdominal pain. A22
 
Justice Making a Recovery
The colon cancer diagnosed in Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, 66, has apparently not spread and was discovered at an early stage by accident because the Justice suffered symptoms from an unrelated abdominal infection, the Supreme Court announced. A20
 
Museum for Native Americans
Construction began on the National Museum of the American Indian on the Washington Mall. A14
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Museum Strikes Back With Suit Against Mayor
The Brooklyn Museum of Art filed a Federal lawsuit accusing Mayor Giuliani of violating the First Amendment by threatening to withdraw city funds from the museum because he objected to some of the works in a planned exhibition. The Mayor immediately ordered the cancellation of the city's next payment, $497,554. A group of 33 city museums and arts groups warned the Mayor that his actions would have a "chilling effect" on city-financed museums. A1
 
Underground Transit Plans
The M.T.A. said it hoped to spend $1.6 billion for a Long Island Rail Road tunnel to Grand Central Terminal and $700 million to restart the Second Avenue subway project. A1
 
Rivalry Impedes Inquiry
The investigation of Russian money flowing through the Bank of New York has been hampered by rivalry between the Manhattan District Attorney and the F.B.I. office. A1
 
Meeting on Air Traffic Delays
Flight delays were miserable this year and may get worse, experts from the airlines and the air traffic controllers' union agreed. B3
 
ARTS E1-10
 
DINING F1-12
 
No Millennium Menus
A growing number of New York's best restaurants have decided to stay closed this New Year's Eve. F1
 
EDUCATION B9
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
European Golfers' Dismay
European golfers may refuse to play another Ryder Cup in the United States because of the fans' abusive behavior, Europe's captain said. D7
 
Wheelchair Athletes Claim Bias
A complaint in Federal court by nine athletes asserted that New York City Marathon organizers had discriminated against them and violated the Americans with Disabilities Act. D7
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-26
 
Expanding Beyond Local Calls
Bell Atlantic plans to ask Federal regulators, perhaps today, for permission to sell long-distance as well as local services in New York State. A go-ahead would make it the first regional Bell company to enter the $80 billion long-distance market. A1
 
G.M. Labor Agreement
General Motors and the U.A.W. reached agreement on a new four-year labor contract that would give the company's 143,200 factory workers annual raises of 3 percent plus adjustments for inflation. C1
 
Moving Into High-Tech Finance
Chase Manhattan agreed to buy Hambrecht & Quist for $1.35 billion, giving one of America's dominant traditional banks an entree into the world of Internet start-ups and bringing it a step closer to becoming a full-service financial firm. C1
 
Gates Buys Silver Stake
William H. Gates 3d, the world's richest man and the chairman of Microsoft, paid $15 million for 10.3 percent of Pan American Silver, a tiny silver mining company based in Vancouver. The purchase was seen as a vote of confidence in the metals market. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES A25
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: The museum's courageous stand; shoring up the volunteer Army; political change in Germany.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E4
 
TV Listings E9
 
Public Lives B2
 
Weather D8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: TIMOR-LESTE (94%); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CYPRUS (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TIMOR-LESTE (94%); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CYPRUS (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BOMBINGS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); TONY BLAIR (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



648 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Agrees To 4-Year Pact With Union

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 28

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation and the United Automobile Workers union reached agreement on a new, four-year labor contract late tonight that would give the company's 143,200 factory workers annual raises of 3 percent plus adjustments for inflation.
The union and the company jointly announced the agreement, but declined to comment further. 
 The deal is significant for workers, of course, because of the hefty raises. But it is also notable because it might signal G.M. has turned the corner in its previously frosty relations with the union. The agreement came without a strike, and without the customary saber-rattling from a frustrated union struggling to get the company's attention at top levels. Last year, G.M. lost $2 billion because of a 54-day strike, its 17th strike since 1993. This year, both the company and the union seemed eager to avoid a repeat of the experience.
"It is clear that G.M. is trying much harder to work with the union," said John A. Casesa, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company. "G.M.'s position reflects a genuine desire to pursue a path of cooperation rather than confrontation and an unwillingness to take the market share loss that would come with a strike."
The agreement comes as the auto industry is selling vehicles nearly as fast as it can build them and earning huge profits, which it does not want to interrupt.
The terms of the G.M. pact mirror those negotiated by the DaimlerChrysler Corporation, which reached agreement with the union Sept. 16. The union said Monday that DaimlerChrysler workers approved the agreement by a margin of 86 percent. Later this month, G.M. workers are expected to vote to ratify the contract language the union and the company settled on tonight, which, like the DaimlerChrysler agreement, also provides for a $1,350 signing bonus.
"It is an expensive contract, but given the fact that the companies are making record sales and earnings and have a strong cash flow, it is hard for them to plead poverty," said David B. Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities.
Stephen P. Yokich, the union president, said last week that this year's labor contracts would allow workers to share in the prosperity of their companies, "It is our turn now that things are good," he said after briefing local union leaders on the deal reached with DaimlerChrysler.
"This is a good contract," he said of that agreement, which has the same principal terms as the one reached with General Motors tonight.
Mr. Yokich personally negotiated with G.M.'s chairman, John F. Smith Jr., in the last three days to reach the deal, company officials said.
The union is expected to turn its attention later this week to the Ford Motor Company. Three-year labor agreements at the three companies expired Sept. 14, but have been extended as the union negotiations continue. The new, four-year contracts cover 400,000 factory workers at the three companies.
Ford is likely to make a similar deal with the union, but negotiations may not go as smoothly as they have at DaimlerChrysler and G.M. The reason is that workers building auto parts at Ford's Visteon subsidiary are nervous that their jobs and wages will be less secure if Ford follows through on its plans to sell Visteon.
According to the union, DaimlerChrysler agreed to language in the contract barring sales or spinoffs of assets, which had little impact on DaimlerChrysler because it had no immediate plans to sell chunks of the company. But because the union typically reaches agreement with one company, then forces the others to accept the same terms, the clause may make it more difficult, or more expensive, for Ford to reach a deal with the union.
"The strong anti-spinoff language in the DaimlerChrysler contract is a real problem," Mr. Healy said. "I don't know how they are going to solve it."
One possibility is that the union will agree to allow Ford to sell Visteon provided it follows the example of General Motors, which spun off its Delphi auto parts division to shareholders in May; the unit is now Delphi Automotive Systems Inc. The terms of the new G.M. contract apply to Delphi's 48,000 workers, according to the announcement tonight that the union had reached a deal with G.M.
Seeking to at least temporarily put its past antagonistic labor relations behind it, G.M. last year put Gary L. Cowger in charge of negotiations as G.M.'s group vice president for labor relations. Mr. Cowger is a former factory manager with excellent union contacts who was running G.M.'s German operations at the time.
G.M.'s president, G. Richard Wagoner Jr., and its senior vice president for North American manufacturing, Donald E. Hackworth, handled much of last summer's negotiations with the U.A.W. but did not get along well with union leaders. Mr. Hackworth in particular ended up on poor terms with the union, mainly because he strongly criticized union leaders in several voice mail messages that he recorded and put on a toll-free number for G.M. employees to call. Union leaders also found that they tended to be considerably older and had little in common with Mr. Wagoner, who is only 46 years old.
Sean McAlinden, an auto industry labor economics expert at the University of Michigan, said that G.M.'s personnel change had improved matters. "The important thing at G.M. was the personalities there changed from Wagoner and Hackworth to Cowger, and that made the difference," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DAIMLERCHRYSLER; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (83%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DAIMLERCHRYSLER; UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; STRIKES FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STRIKES (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); MARKET SHARE (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); APPROVALS (63%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



649 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Bradley Presents Health Plan For Almost All the Uninsured

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 28

 BODY:
Former Senator Bill Bradley today proposed a $65 billion-a-year plan that he said would make health care available to virtually all uninsured Americans through an ambitious expansion of Federal tax subsidies and insurance programs.
The proposal by Mr. Bradley, who is seeking the Democratic nomination for President, would offer health coverage to lower-income adults and children in one of two ways: by allowing them to join, with little or no premium costs, the Federal Government's health insurance system for its employees or by providing tax credits to subsidize their premiums in private insurance plans. 
 Under the proposal, a family of four earning as much as $49,200 in gross annual income would be eligible for at least a partial Federal subsidy of its health insurance premiums. And Mr. Bradley would reduce health care costs for people in higher income brackets by excluding all health insurance premiums paid by individuals, regardless of their income, from Federal taxes.
Mr. Bradley said that if all eligible people participated in his plan, 95 percent of the country's 45 million uninsured adults and children would receive health care. But health care experts said it was highly unlikely that so many people would participate in a voluntary plan.
The former Senator said his plan would not require new taxes, and could be financed using the non-Social Security surplus, projected to be more than $1 trillion over the next decade, as well as cost-saving measures. But he cautioned that he did not have a backup financing plan if the economy turned sour and the surplus evaporated.
Throughout his 30-minute speech at a community college here, Mr. Bradley sounded a populist tone, calling good health care a solemn right, not a luxury.
"We are not talking about the irresponsible or the negligent," he said of the uninsured, but about "people you and I know" who are one catastrophic illness away from bankruptcy. It is wrong, he continued, "that kings and dictators can come to this country to get the best medical care in the world, while Americans two blocks away may not be able to afford any care at all."
The former Senator from New Jersey also said he would require all children to have health insurance. But he did not propose an enforcement mechanism, saying, "You have to have trust in the basic goodness of the American people."
Mr. Bradley's plan is more ambitious than one proposed earlier this month by his lone rival for the Democratic nomination, Vice President Al Gore, and thus continues his effort to sharpen his appeal to liberal Democrats. Mr. Gore proposed making health care available to all children but did not go as far as Mr. Bradley in making it accessible to adults.
By contrast, Mr. Bradley's plan is less extensive and regimented than President Clinton's complicated proposal that came under fierce attack from Republicans and the health care industry and was killed by Congress in 1994. That plan would have required all employers to provide health insurance for workers and their families.
Today Mr. Bradley, who did not play a central role in the 1994 fight, described his plan as the kind of bold stroke the nation needs to solve its serious health care problems. But he also asserted that it would have a better chance of passing than Mr. Clinton's proposal because it was simpler, required less bureaucracy, gave people greater say over their insurance plans and would be debated more openly.
At a news conference after his speech, Mr. Bradley also took a sharp shot at Mr. Gore, calling the Vice President's health care plan timid. "I think there are differences between trying to do something big, to deal with a big problem that affects almost all Americans, and continuing to be advocating incremental change," Mr. Bradley said. "It is a fundamental difference between the candidacies."
He also criticized Mr. Gore for not having laid out the cost of his proposal, saying, "A campaign proposal without a price tag is just another politician's promise."
But aides to Mr. Gore said Mr. Bradley's plan failed to address the financial problems of Medicare, the Government health care program for the elderly. The Clinton Administration has proposed setting aside $374 billion of the surplus over the next 10 years to shore up the program. Mr. Bradley's proposal would eat up too much of the surplus to do that, the aides said.
Elaine Kamarck, a policy adviser to Mr. Gore, said, "The shortchanging of Medicare is, I think, a huge problem with the Bradley plan." She also said Mr. Bradley had probably underestimated the cost of his plan.
The plan drew an odd mixture of reactions from people on both ends of the political spectrum. Liberals, while applauding its intent, said it fell short of universal care, while conservatives praised its use of tax credits.
"It's a step in the right direction," said Stuart Butler, vice president for domestic research with the Heritage Foundation, a conservative policy organization. "It's a very shrewd plan that builds on a bipartisan base."
Ron Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a national organization for health care consumers, warned that the plan might encourage companies to eliminate health insurance for employees, pushing them into the Federal plan. "I've never been a fan of using the tax code as the best vehicle for achieving coverage," Mr. Pollack said. "It does have the possibility of providing tax breaks for people that don't need them. And it could result in employer-based coverage being scaled back."
Mr. Bradley's proposal would essentially replace Medicaid, the Government health care program for the poor, with a new system run entirely by the Federal Government, which would continue to finance care for the poor.
Medicaid costs are now split among Federal, state and local governments. Under Mr. Bradley's plan, the Federal Government would pay the full cost of acute care for low-income adults and children, while states would pick up the entire Medicaid cost of long-term nursing home care for the elderly. The swap would reduce states' costs by $18 billion a year, Mr. Bradley's aides said.
But the plan would go beyond current government programs by using the tax code to help the working poor and higher income people.
Under the plan, Mr. Bradley would give lower income families and individuals tax credits to help pay for premiums. Children living in families earning under 200 percent of the poverty line -- or $32,800 a year in gross income for a family of four -- would receive a $1,200 tax subsidy. That is enough to pay annual premiums in many private plans, Mr. Bradley's aides said.
A smaller tax credit would be available to families earning between 200 percent and 300 percent of the poverty level, which is $49,200 a year in gross income for a family of four.
Adults, with or without children, would receive a $1,800 tax credit if their income was below poverty level, which is a $16,400 gross annual income for a family of four. Adults earning between 100 percent and 200 percent of the poverty line would receive somewhat smaller credits.
Mr. Bradley would allow people to use the tax credits, which would be paid in advance directly to insurance companies, to pay for insurance premiums. The credits could be used either with the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program, a system of private companies that insures Federal employees, or with any other private insurer.
Nine million Federal workers, including members of Congress, now belong to the Federal employees system. Mr. Bradley's aides estimated that as many as two-thirds of the 33 million unemployed adults in the country might join the Federal system if the plan was enacted.
Health care experts cautioned that opening the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program to a tide of lower-income people, many of them unemployed, would place costly new burdens on the program and potentially drive up premiums.
Mr. Bradley would also exclude all health insurance premium payments by individuals from Federal taxes. And he would create an optional prescription drug benefit for Medicare recipients that would have a $500 deductible, $25 monthly premium and 25 percent co-payment fee.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Bradley presented a health-care plan yesterday in a speech at Los Angeles Valley Community College. Later, he met audience members. (Associated Press)(pg. A22)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; HEALTH INSURANCE; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; BRADLEY, BILL AL GORE (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



650 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: Chase Agrees to Acquire Hambrecht & Quist

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN and PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
The Chase Manhattan Corporation agreed yesterday to buy San Francisco-based Hambrecht & Quist for $1.35 billion, giving one of America's dominant traditional banks an entree into the world of Internet start-ups and bringing it a step closer to becoming a full-service financial concern.
The proposed cash deal pairs two financial companies -- Chase, the heavyweight banker for large corporations, and Hambrecht, a boutique catering to Silicon Valley entrepreneurs -- that had begun to look like lonely singles at a swinging square dance. Chase's major competitors have all bought or merged with investment banking firms. Hambrecht is the last of its class of finance firms that catered to technology companies to find a larger and deeper-pocketed partner. 
 But the marriage, if it is consummated, falls far short of the megamerger that Chase executives, and many on Wall Street, have talked about for more than a year. The New York-based bank, the third largest in the nation, has made no secret of its desire for a "transformative" deal that would create the world's most potent competitor in everything from bank loans to initial offerings of stock. Chase officials were quick to point out that yesterday's purchase did not fulfill those ambitions.
"It's important to say what this deal is and what it isn't," said Marc Shapiro, a Chase vice chairman. "What it is is an investment in the new economy. But as a total solution to the global platform we are looking for -- we have not crossed that bridge."
The Hambrecht deal seemed to some analysts to be a tacit admission that Chase's recent overtures to Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and Goldman, Sachs & Company, the three biggest Wall Street firms, had been unrequited, at least for now. But many said that they expected the consolidation in the financial industry to continue.
"Could we wake up one morning and find that Chase has merged with Merrill? I don't think this changes that possibility," said David Berry, a bank industry expert at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. "But for some reason, there's been no big deal for Chase so far. And at some point you have to get on with life. This makes sense for them."
One possibility, bank analysts said, is that Chase's pursuit of Hambrecht signals its willingness to build a stock underwriting franchise brickby brick, rather than spending at least $30 billion to buy one of the top three Wall Street firms. That suggests that Chase could try to buy a midsize underwriter like Lehman Brothers or Paine Webber next.
Though it leads the pack in the traditional lending business, Chase had been slow to seize on the opportunity to expand into stock underwriting. Competitors including Citigroup, Bank of America and BankBoston have been quicker to snap up stock underwriters when Depression-era laws that separated banks and brokerages began being eased several years ago.
The Hambrecht match also underscores the increasing importance of what analysts call the "new economy" -- high-technology and Internet companies that, at least in their early years, are too small or lose too much money to do business with the likes of Chase. Such start-up companies have often traditionally relied on specialist firms like Hambrecht for financial guidance because they were ignored by large banks and most Wall Street firms.
Hambrecht's roots in the technology banking business run deep. Daniel H. Case 3d, the chief executive, is the older brother of Steve Case, chief executive of America Online. Hambrecht's reputation for picking small but promising winners was made in 1980, when it brought Apple Computer to market, and sealed in 1995, when it backed Netscape's initial public offering.
For Hambrecht -- its name would change to Chase Securities West if the deal is completed, as expected, by the end of the year -- Chase seems an ideal match after a long search. Mr. Case has talked to numerous potential banking partners in the past, including the German banks Deutsche Bank and Dresdner Bank, as well as Merrill Lynch, bankers said. Hambrecht's relative position in high-technology investment banking had slipped behind Goldman, Sachs, Morgan Stanley and other top Wall Street firms in the last few years, in part because it did not have the range of services of its rivals.
"Our little entrepreneurial part of the economy has become the dominant part of the total economy in the 1990's," Mr. Case said in a interview at his headquarters, a distinctive steel and glass structure designed by Mies van der Rohe in San Francisco's financial district. "But our ability to serve our clients has been narrowed by products and geography. Now we can grow with them."
The sale is also a financial coup for Hambrecht executives. Chase will pay $50 a share to buy the firm, 22 percent more than Monday's closing price of $41.0625. It will also set aside $200 million in stock to retain key bankers at the combined firm. Shares of Hambrecht rose $7.625 yesterday, to $48.6875, a record high; Chase fell 31.25 cents, to $73.8125.
Hambrecht could bargain from a position of relative strength this year after its underwriting business slumped in 1997 and 1998. It has underwrotten 17 initial public offerings valued at $972 million by the Securities Data Corporation so far this year. That is almost exactly what it underwrote in 1996, though its share of the business is less than 5 percent now, compared with 15 percent three years ago. It stock has more than tripled in the last 12 months.
For Chase, the benefits of Hambrecht are less certain. Their main clients are on almost opposite poles of the economy. Chase serves large corporations that have sophisticated banking needs and proven profit records. Hambrecht prides itself in spotting new companies that would not qualify for a bank loan.
"There is definitely a substantial difference in the size of our clients," said James B. Lee Jr., a Chase vice chairman who heads the bank's investment banking arm and sat next to Mr. Case to explain the merger to Hambrecht employees yesterday. "But the wonderful thing about the tech business is that those companies grow fast."
For several years, Chase has been trying to extend its franchise into investment banking, with mixed success. It is the No. 1 provider of syndicated loans, one of the top three underwriters of junk bonds and a top 10 player in mergers and acquisitions. But it has yet to make a mark in equities, the core investment banking business.
Chase is not the first New York bank to go west to take advantage of the prolonged boom in technology stocks. Two years ago Merrill Lynch came very close to buying Hambrecht amid a spree of acquisitions of midsize investment banks. Morgan Stanley and Goldman, Sachs have also beefed up their West Coast presences and grabbed larger shares of the technology investment banking business. In terms of technology company underwriting, Goldman, Sachs and Morgan Stanley are now No. 1 and No. 2, respectively, by a wide margin. So far this year, Hambrecht ranks No. 9.
A buyout by Chase would end the independence of the last remaining member of four smaller technology-focused investment banks based outside of New York that was known on Wall Street as the HARM group. The group comprised Hambrecht; Alex. Brown & Sons; Robertson, Stephens and Montgomery Securities. Within the last two years, each of those firms has been gobbled up by a large commercial bank and each of the acquisitions has been followed by defections of large numbers of investment bankers and other key employees.
The most notable example of post-merger conflict came after the Nationsbank Corporation bought San Francisco-based Montgomery Securities for $1.2 billion. A year later, Thomas Weisel, who had run Montgomery, left to start a new firm and recruited several of his highest-ranking colleagues to join him.
"The issues are cultural -- the bureaucracy of a larger bank being superimposed on an entrepreneurial shop," Mr. Weisel said yesterday, reflecting on his experience at Nationsbank. Mr. Weisel said he had respect for Chase executives, but predicted that they would also face obstacles integrating Hambrecht.
Mr. Case and Mr. Lee acknowledged that there was not a particularly successful model for the sort of the deal they are proposing, but they said they expected a different result. "This is about a lot more than just a successful integration, but without a successful integration nothing else matters," Mr. Case said.
Still, Chase is setting aside $200 million of stock to retain a pool of Hambrecht's key employees. Mr. Case declined to say how many people would share that money but he said it would be distributed "broader and deeper" than in other acquisitions in keeping with the "egalitarian" culture of the firm.
Mr. Lee said those extended payouts would not be the key to making the integration work. "Money can't fix a bad cultural fit," he said.
Mr. Case and the man he referred to as "my new boss," Mr. Lee, are a study in contrasts. Mr. Case, tall and slim at 41, still looks the part of the wunderkind he once was. A Princeton University graduate, he joined Hambrecht after completing a Rhodes scholarship at Oxford University. He was named co-chief executive in 1992 and sole chief executive two years later.
Mr. Lee, 46, in French cuffs and suspenders, looks and talks more the part of the powerful New York investment banker. Chase executives said the Hambrecht deal increased his responsibilities within the bank. Mr. Lee already oversees Chase's substantial syndicated lending and merger and acquisitions businesses.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Plugged In"
Here is how Hambrecht & Quist, a leading underwriter of technology issues, stacks up against other technology underwriters. All figures give full credit to the lead concern in the deal and are year to date.
 
Goldman, Sachs
NO. OF ISSUES -- 25
PROCEEDS (MILLIONS) -- $2,976.8
MARKET SHARE -- 16.4
 
Credit Suisse First Boston
NO. OF ISSUES -- 30
PROCEEDS (MILLIONS) -- $2,798.6
MARKET SHARE -- 15.4
 
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter
NO. OF ISSUES -- 21
PROCEEDS (MILLIONS) -- $2,571.4
MARKET SHARE -- 14.2
 
Deutsche Bank
NO. OF ISSUES -- 19
PROCEEDS (MILLIONS) -- $1,430.5
MARKET SHARE -- 7.9
 
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette
NO. OF ISSUES -- 16
PROCEEDS (MILLIONS) -- $1,329.5
MARKET SHARE -- 7.3
 
Lehman Brothers
NO. OF ISSUES -- 15
PROCEEDS (MILLIONS) -- $1,065.9
MARKET SHARE -- 5.9
 
BankBoston
NO. OF ISSUES -- 20
PROCEEDS (MILLIONS) -- $1,029.1
MARKET SHARE -- 5.7
 
Bear Stearns
NO. OF ISSUES -- 11
PROCEEDS (MILLIONS) -- $984.8
MARKET SHARE -- 5.4
 
Hambrecht & Quist
NO. OF ISSUES -- 13
PROCEEDS (MILLIONS) -- $791.0
MARKET SHARE -- 4.4
 
Merrill Lynch
NO. OF ISSUES -- 12
PROCEEDS (MILLIONS) -- $713.8
MARKET SHARE -- 3.9
 
(Source: Thomson Financial Securities Data)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; HAMBRECHT & QUIST HAMBRECHT & QUIST CALIFORNIA (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; HAMBRECHT & QUIST

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; STOCKS AND BONDS INTERNET & WWW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); STARTUPS (77%); ONLINE TRADING (77%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (75%); BONDS (75%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); STOCK OFFERINGS (68%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (66%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; MCGEEHAN, PATRICK MARC J SHAPIRO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



651 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Shoring Up the Volunteer Army

 BODY:
For the better part of two decades, the catchy advertising jingle "Be All That You Can Be," along with promises of on-the-job training and money for higher education, helped the United States Army meet its recruiting goals and gave the country a high-quality volunteer force. But now the Army, along with other branches of the armed services, is facing a serious recruiting gap that is forcing it to rethink its hiring practices and marketing strategy. The proposed changes in tactics outlined in an article in Monday's Times seem like a good start on what is likely to be a long and difficult effort to turn things around. As a collateral benefit, these changes may help society as well.
Officials at the Pentagon offer several reasons for the declining lack of interest in military service. One is purely statistical. The pool of young men and women between the ages of 18 and 22, the optimum age for recruits, has shrunk to about 21 million, down 5 million from the 1980 level. Meanwhile, a robust economy has created abundant job opportunities for those who might otherwise be interested in enlisting, while making it financially feasible for more young people to attend college. 
 There may also be more amorphous influences at work. Louis Caldera, the Secretary of the Army, notes that many of the parents of the present generation of recruits came of age after the draft ended in 1973, and thus have no tradition of military service to pass along to their offspring. Representative Steve Buyer, an Indiana Republican who heads the House subcommittee on military personnel, believes that the armed forces have never codified their basic mission since the end of the cold war and, under President Clinton, have begun to resemble an international fire brigade with poorly defined, helter-skelter responsibilities that might best be left to regional powers.
Whatever the reason, the numbers are not good. When the fiscal year ends tomorrow, the Army will fall short of its goal for the second year in a row, signing up 7,000 fewer enlistees than the 74,500 it needs to maintain its force at current levels. The Air Force is expected to miss its target by a lesser amount and the Navy will just squeak by. Only the Marine Corps has kept pace. Like all the services, the Army has increased its advertising, raised its "signing bonuses" and increased its contribution to a recruit's post-military college tuition from $40,000 to $50,000. The Army has also sent young soldiers back into their neighborhoods to deliver pep talks to their civilian contemporaries.
These tactics make sense, but the most promising strategy may lie, paradoxically, in the Pentagon's willingness to ease its standards. Under present rules, 90 percent of the Army's recruits must have at least a high school diploma. In recent years, however, the Army has found that recruits with lesser academic credentials like a general equivalency diploma -- G.E.D. for short -- have performed just as well as those with high school degrees. Thus, just as the Navy did last year, the Army is thinking of relaxing the 90 percent requirement, allowing more G.E.D. students into its ranks. It is also planning a pilot program that will pay 6,000 high school dropouts to pursue a G.E.D. so they can qualify to join the active force or the reserves. In a similar vein, the Army will try to sign up students who have started college but dropped out.
In effect, the Army will increasingly be seeking its recruits among dropouts of one sort or another, as long as they possess or can be persuaded to obtain minimal credentials. This strategy could yield a double benefit. It could not only help the Army deal with its manpower problems but also give a new sense of direction to many thousands of young people who might otherwise wind up on the streets, unemployed or in dead-end service jobs. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; EDITORIALS; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (MILITARY); STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION ARMIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MARKETING STRATEGY (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (77%); COLD WAR (77%); TUITION FEES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); MILITARY RECRUITING (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); AIR FORCES (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (70%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); STEVE BUYER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



652 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Ever-Burning Issue

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28

 BODY:
This was going to be the year that Congress and the Clinton Administration de-electrified the third rail of American politics, putting partisanship aside to insure the long-term viability of the Social Security system.
"So first and above all," President Clinton said during his State of the Union address in January, "we must save Social Security for the 21st century." 
 It never happened. Instead, Social Security proved to be as irresistible and potent a political weapon as ever, if not more so. And decisions by both parties to use the retirement program's almost sacred place in the hearts of voters as a club against the other help explain why Congress and the White House are again headed toward a budget showdown.
Conceding that Congress will be unable to pass the spending bills necessary to keep the Federal Government operating after the start of the new fiscal year on Friday, the House and the Senate both passed a measure today to provide the necessary money for three weeks while Republicans try to work out their differences with Mr. Clinton.
In large part because of the way they chose to play the Social Security card, the two sides are in a fiscal box of their own making. Mr. Clinton blocked Republican efforts to enact a big tax cut by arguing that projected Federal budget surpluses should be set aside until Social Security's long-term financial problems had been resolved.
Frustrated by the success of Mr. Clinton's strategy -- and fed up with the Democratic Party's claims over many decades to be the one true protector of Social Security -- Republicans tried to turn the tables. Eager to advance their goal of reducing the size and influence Federal Government, they demanded earlier this year that the President scale back his spending requests to avoid dipping into the portion of next year's surplus generated by excess Social Security revenue.
Unwilling to cede the high ground, Mr. Clinton took the Republicans up on their challenge this summer. But with time running out to pull together next year's budget, neither side has a politically realistic way of making good on its promise to keep its hands off Social Security, at least not without resorting to wholesale gimmickry. And both sides are largely ignoring the reality that spending a small portion of Social Security revenues will have little or no effect on the retirement system's long-term health or on the economy.
"It will be difficult for either side to gain significant advantage," said Robert D. Reischauer, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office who is now a fellow at the Brookings Institution, a liberal-leaning research group. "The Republicans made a premature promise that was reiterated by the President. It's something neither party could fulfill."
Neither party, though, is yet willing to give up, fearing that to do so would hand the other side an explosive issue to exploit in next year's election campaign.
"It looks like they're both trying to run feeder lines from any available source of power to make this issue even more electrified," said David C. John, a senior policy analyst at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization. "If you can accuse the other side of being opposed to motherhood and the flag, by God you'll do it."
In a technical sense, spending some part of next year's Social Security surplus has almost nothing to do with the longer term issue of assuring that the retirement system is financially sound enough to weather the impending retirement of the vast baby boom generation.
The Government has spent excess Social Security revenue routinely for decades. But that was before the Government moved from budget deficits into surpluses and gained the luxury of differentiating between revenue from general taxation and revenue generated by the payroll tax that finances Social Security.
Other than cutting taxes, the Government can do two things with its excess revenue. It can spend the money or reduce the part of the national debt held by the public.
Social Security revenue will far exceed what is needed to pay benefits to current retirees for another decade or two, and then will fall well below what is needed to pay full benefits. Next year's projected $147 billion Social Security surplus will reach $235 billion by 2009.
If the Social Security surplus is used to reduce the national debt, it will help keep interest rates low, spur additional economic growth and leave the Federal Government in better financial condition for the day when it has to begin borrowing again to meet Social Security obligations.
But spending a small part of the money would still allow the Government to reduce the national debt substantially in coming years. And spending the money -- using it to cover a shortfall in the Government's general accounts -- would not in any way change the retirement system's financial condition, since Social Security revenues are not set aside on the Government's books specifically to pay benefits.
"Many Americans -- and more than a few policy makers -- appear to believe that using a portion of the Social Security surplus to cover a deficit in the non-Social Security budget would constitute a 'raid' on Social Security, reducing Social Security's assets and impairing its ability to pay benefits in the future," the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal-leaning research organization, said in a recent report. "These beliefs, however, are not correct and appear to be rooted in a misunderstanding of how Social Security finances work."
In that sense, drawing a line in the sand over spending Social Security revenue is an arbitrary way of deciding how to apportion projected surpluses. It is more about political symbolism than about policy or economic choices.
"There desperately needs to be a decent, civil discussion about what we do with Social Security and for that matter what we do with our entire budget," said Mr. John of the Heritage Foundation. "I'm afraid 1999 and 2000 do not look like the years that is going to happen." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); LIBERALISM (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



653 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Ecuador Allowed to Default As a Warning for Markets
The Clinton administration's decision to let Ecuador default on its debts is being interpreted as a message from Lawrence H. Summers, the Treasury Secretary, that a little fear would be good for the markets.
That message, China's possible entry into the World Trade Organization and more aid for Russia are among the topics for the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. Page C4. 

Big Crackdown by S.E.C.
Stepping up its oversight of corporate accounting, the S.E.C. brought charges against 68 companies and individuals, who were accused of accounting fraud at 15 companies. Among 11 chief executives named in the complaints was Fran Tarkenton, the former quarterback who became a software entrepreneur. C2.
 
Showdown Seen Over Stock Rules
The New York Stock Exchange appears to be headed for a showdown with the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission over how the exchange will be regulated when it converts to a publicly traded business. C12.
 
Stocks Rebound; End Down Slightly
Stocks staged a late-session rally, with the Dow Jones industrial average gaining nearly 200 points in the last two hours, to close down 27.86 points, to 10,275.53. The Nasdaq composite index fell 5.50 points, to 2,756.25. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 1.11 points, to 1,282.20. C14.
 
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond rose to 6.08 percent, from 6.01 percent. C14.
 
Gold Prices Rise 9 Percent, to $308
The price of gold surged $28.20, or 9 percent, to $308.10 an ounce. C14.
 
Competition on Internet Addresses
Network Solutions, which has held a monopoly on registering Internet addresses for six years, agreed to open the process to competition -- but only after winning a key concession from the Clinton Administration that effectively limits the authority of the Internet's new governing body. C12.
 
Intel Opens Corporate On-Line Unit
Intel started a unit that will operate corporate computing systems over the Internet. C2.
 
Aetna Shares Come Under Pressure
Aetna shares dropped $5.1875, to $61.75, on doubts that it got its money's worth when it bought the Prudential health care business last year. The decline followed Aetna's meeting with analysts, who contended that Aetna failed to explain how the deal would deliver the immediate increases in profits that Aetna had projected. C25.
 
Japan Approves Takeover of Bank
The Japanese Government granted an American-led investor group the right to acquire the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, a former financial giant hobbled by bad loans. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,275.53, down 27.86
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.08%, up 0.07
The euro -- $1.055, up 0.01
The dollar -- 106.10 yen, up 0.10
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
 
Durable Goods Orders
 August figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -0.5%
 
Another graph tracks the share price of Aetna, since last Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); INTEL CORP (52%); BANK OF JAPAN (50%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DOMAIN NAMES (86%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); ACCOUNTING (75%); TAKEOVERS (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (63%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



654 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Aviation Experts Bemoan Delays in the Sky

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
Flight delays across the nation were miserable last spring and summer and they may get worse, experts from the airlines and the air traffic controllers' union agreed yesterday, but they disagreed about why, who was to blame and how to fix the problem.
The experts, speaking in a session in Manhattan yesterday with a top official of the Federal Aviation Administration, said that delays were up sharply for the first eight months of the year, to a national total of 265,200 delays of more than 15 minutes. But a deeper problem, according to R. John Hansman, a professor of aeronautics at M.I.T., is that the F.A.A. has failed in several major efforts to modernize the air traffic system, and the volume of flights has grown to the point that the capacity of the system is falling. 
 Several airline representatives and Monte R. Belger, the associate administrator of the F.A.A. for air traffic services, said that the job of handling traffic would be performed better by a private organization or a quasi-governmental agency. The F.A.A., part of the United States Department of Transportation, is hampered by Government procurement and budgeting procedures and by political interference from Congress, outside aviation experts say.
"The Government has simply got to get the hell out of this," said Robert L. Crandall, retired chairman of American Airlines. He and the other experts spoke at a session sponsored by the Air Safety Alliance, a nonprofit consortium of airlines and airplane and engine makers, and the Newseum, a news museum.
The Clinton Administration tried in the mid-90's to spin off the F.A.A. as a Government-owned corporation, but the idea went nowhere in Congress. Mr. Belger said that the privatized Canadian air traffic system, Nav Canada, had raised controllers' salaries 31 percent and still cut its costs through efficiencies that only a private enterprise could manage.
Nationally, for the first eight months of this year, delays of more than 15 minutes because of weather, air traffic volume, breakdown of air traffic control equipment, runways out of service and other problems were up 19.6 percent over the same period a year earlier. April through August was particularly bad, partly because the F.A.A. installed new computer screens in several air traffic control centers and the controllers, while getting used to them, spaced planes more widely, F.A.A. officials say.
Airports in the Northeast, including the three major airports in the New York region, are chronically congested.
Mr. Crandall pointed out that in 1977, the last year before airline deregulation, the airlines carried 220 million passengers domestically; last year, it was 560 million.
Capt. Bill Cotton, manager of air traffic flight systems at United Airlines, said that the descriptions of the air traffic system sounded like trying to get 10 pounds of potatoes into a 5-pound bag. "My response," he said, "has been for the last 32 years, 'Why don't you build another bag?' "
The system is "technologically archaic," he said, and he offered his own flight from Chicago to New York as an example. It was on time, he said, but only because the airline had scheduled the trip to take 30 minutes longer than it did 25 years ago.
Most parties deflected blame. "When the F.A.A.'s performance deteriorates, no one notices," said Mr. Crandall, "particularly since it is easy to blame the airlines for every problem."
But J. Randall Schwitz Jr., a vice president of the controllers' union, said, "I guarantee, on any airplane you get on that's delayed, what will come over from the voice in that cockpit, is air traffic control delay, no matter what the reason." He said there was lots of spare capacity in the system, but that the hub-and-spoke system had led to the airlines' creating several rush hours a day at their hub airports.
If the economy stays healthy and fuel prices stay low, most experts expect more passengers and more air traffic delays. The F.A.A. is installing new equipment, but much of it will not give controllers new tools to handle traffic. New computers and monitors, for example, are intended to replace old, frail parts that are no longer available with standardized computers. Eventually, the new equipment can be programmed to help controllers do more work.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Waiting Is the Hardest Part"
The Federal Aviation Administration defines a flight delay as any interruption of 15 minutes or longer in takeoff or landing of an aircraft. The New York region's major airports are experiencing more delays.
 
Average number of takeoffs and landings per year
KENNEDY -- 351,000
LA GUARDIA -- 353,000
NEWARK -- 456,000
 
Graphs track total number of delays for the first eight months of each year, and average duration of delays for the three airports since 1997.
(Sources: Federal Aviation Administration; Port Authority of New York and New Jersey)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS488111 AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (65%); SIC4581 AIRPORTS, FLYING FIELDS & AIRPORT TERMINAL SERVICES (65%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NAV CANADA (65%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL; LABOR; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (91%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (79%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (79%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (74%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



655 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times 

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: WORK IS PROPOSED ON 2D AVE. SUBWAY

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Aiming to capitalize on a booming economy while addressing some of the New York region's mass transit needs, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority said yesterday that it planned to spend $1.6 billion for a new Long Island Rail Road tunnel to Grand Central Terminal and $700 million to restart the long-dormant Second Avenue subway project.
The proposals, in the M.T.A.'s five-year capital plan, still face scrutiny in Albany, where Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver has warned he may block the plan because it favors suburban commuters. There are also questions about how it will be financed. 
 Still, the five-year plan is a blueprint that represents the authority's long-term priorities: It calls for spending $16.5 billion on such things as new buses, subway cars and station improvements, as well as new tracks and tunnels. An additional $1 billion would be provided for the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority for bridge improvements.
In another large subway expansion project, advocated strongly by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, the plan would dedicate $645 million for an extension of the N line in Queens to La Guardia Airport.
The spending plan, to be presented to the M.T.A. board today, is the largest in the history of the authority and would represent the biggest expansion of the city's mass transit system since the 1930's, said the M.T.A.'s chairman, E. Virgil Conway.
Mr. Conway acknowledged that large questions remained over how the plan would be financed, saying it would require either a large infusion of new government subsidies, or fare increases.
The political hurdles to the plan were already apparent yesterday. In an interview, Mr. Silver, who represents the Upper East Side and has veto power over the capital spending plan, said he would "not allow it to go forward" unless more priority was given to construction of the Second Avenue subway.
Mr. Silver's criticism reflected the concerns of transit advocates and some urban planners that the plan would pay for only an abbreviated version of a Second Avenue subway line. Instead of having it run from northern Manhattan to the Battery, the M.T.A. envisions a new tunnel under Second Avenue from 125th Street to 63d Street, where the line would turn west along an unused subway spur that lies under the southeast corner of Central Park.
Using that spur, the line would connect to what is now the express track of the N and R lines, which slices through the middle of Manhattan on its journey downtown. As a result, it would not provide convenient service to the East Side of Manhattan below 63d Street.
"Everybody wants the entire Second Avenue line to be built," Mr. Conway said, adding that the five-year plan provided for only a "first phase of the project," namely, engineering, environmental studies and some limited construction. He said later extensions of the line could, in theory, allow it to continue down Second Avenue toward the Battery.
The Second Avenue subway has long been a dream of mass transit advocates who have been pressing to relieve crowding on the Lexington Avenue line. Work on the huge project had been under way by the mid-1970's, when the city's fiscal crisis forced a halt to the construction, leaving three short tunnels, at 120th Street, 110th Street and Canal Street, that have never been used.
Transit officials said they had limited the plan for new construction to upper Manhattan because of the engineering difficulties and expense of extending a new line under the more congested parts of midtown.
But critics of the authority's proposal said the line would not alleviate what is expected to be a sharp increase in congestion at Grand Central should the Long Island Rail Road begin taking passengers there, perhaps as early as 2009.
"Even before you add the Long Island Rail Road riders, the Lexington Avenue line will be physically unable to accept more riders," said Jeffrey Zupan, a transportation analyst for the Regional Plan Association, which earlier this year provoked widespread interest in the Second Avenue project with a report in which it advocated a new line down the entire East Side of Manhattan, and extensions into the Bronx and Brooklyn. "They can describe this as a first step, but they have no second or third step," he said.
Mr. Silver, one of three members of an M.T.A. oversight board whose approval is needed for the five-year capital plan, said he would insist that the Second Avenue project and the new tunnel to Grand Central "be built in tandem."
In addition to the oversight board, the capital plan must be approved by Gov. George E. Pataki, who exercises broad influence over the M.T.A. board and is believed to have given the green light to the plan.
If adopted, the plan would be virtually without parallel in scope for government agencies in the New York region because most are not required to forecast their finances so far in the future. Although similar plans have guided the M.T.A. for decades, they are not legally binding and can be amended because of shifts in the economy or changes in the level of government subsidy.
The plan to be presented today, which would become effective on Jan. 1, is far larger than its predecessor, which called for capital spending of $12.5 billion during the five years that end on Dec. 31.
Although the new plan is unusual in that it would set aside large investments in new subways and train service, it allocates most spending -- $13.5 billion -- for maintenance and improvements to the existing system. Under the plan, $2 billion would be spent on 1,130 new subway cars, resulting in an addition of 200 cars.
The Long Island Rail Road, which has faced broad criticism of the condition of its trains, would receive $934 million to buy and renovate cars. New York City Transit, which operates buses and subways in the city, would be given $416 million for 1,056 new buses, 300 powered by alternative fuels but most fueled by diesel.
The plan to acquire more diesel buses set off an outcry yesterday by environmentalists.
"With this plan, we remain way out of step with other cities," said Richard Kassel, senior attorney for the Natural Resources Defense Council, adding that many big-city transportation authorities had eliminated or severely restricted the use of diesel-powered buses.
Mr. Conway said the biggest challenge facing the authority would be filling a $4.44 billion gap between what it expects to receive in government support, revenues from riders and other sources, and what it would need to pay for its plan.
He said part of the gap could be filled by reducing expenses, itself a difficult proposition since the M.T.A.'s contract with its largest labor union, Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, expires in December. On Monday, senior officials of the union said they might strike New York City Transit if their demands for wage increases were not met.
Mr. Conway said the largest part of the financial gap facing the authority would have to be filled through "new government assistance or other resources," which could include fare increases.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In June 1977, Second Avenue between 114th and 115th Streets was dug up for the Second Avenue subway project, which may now be revived. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B3)
 
Map showing the location of the proposed work in Manhattan. (pg. B3)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY; LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO; TRIBOROUGH BRIDGE AND TUNNEL AUTHORITY LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY; LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO; TRIBOROUGH BRIDGE AND TUNNEL AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; RAILROADS; GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL (NYC); SUBWAYS; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LA GUARDIA AIRPORT (NYC) URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (93%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (92%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); AIRLINES (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (68%); ENGINEERING (67%); VETO (67%); SUBURBS (55%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; CONWAY, E VIRGIL RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



656 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 29, 1999
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2043 words

HEADLINE: Law-Enforcement Rivalry in U.S. Slowed Inquiry on Russian Funds

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN and LOWELL BERGMAN 

 BODY:
The investigation of Russian money flowing through the Bank of New York has been snarled by one of the oldest and most bitter rivalries in American law enforcement -- between the Manhattan District Attorney and the F.B.I.'s powerful New York office.
During the last year, law enforcement officials say, investigators for each agency separately discovered that shadowy figures were using an obscure company, the Benex Corporation, to move money out of Russia. 
 The inquiries began from separate points -- a kidnapping case for the Federal Bureau of Investigation and a suspected money-laundering operation for the New York prosecutors. Each side had information the other lacked that ultimately showed these were two pieces of a single puzzle.
But the information was never pooled, officials said.
In fact, F.B.I. officials are said to have been angered when British investigators, who were conducting their own investigation of Russian organized crime, told a New York prosecutor and a State Department official what they knew about the Federal case.
Since the investigation burst into public view in August, each side has been trying to leave the impression that it was hotly pursuing the case while its counterpart was dragging its feet or chasing down empty leads.
Relations have become so frayed that Federal investigators have let it be known that bureau officials and Federal attorneys even discussed whether they could file obstruction-of-justice charges against counterparts in other agencies whom they perceived as getting in the way.
These disputes -- and the larger question of how they may affect the outcome of the investigation -- are far from resolved. Federal law enforcement officials insist that the New York prosecutors know little of value for their case, while defenders of the District Attorney say the bureau is still missing out on important leads. But several points are clear.
The office of the District Attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, was the first to find the link between Benex and the Bank of New York and has looked closely at the maze of companies that his investigators believe were the conduit for the money.
But, Federal investigators said, the prosecutor never closely examined the bank's role in the affair and did not obtain crucial bank records that disclosed billions of dollars in suspicious transfers from Russia.
The F.B.I. focused on the bank more than a year ago and was the first agency to understand the size of the Benex transactions. But the bureau has been faulted by some Administration officials for failing to tell other agencies, including the Treasury Department and State Department, what it knew about such an important banking case with broad diplomatic implications.
 
The Rivals
Whose Turf Is It, Contenders Ask
At the heart of the turf war are legendary personalities and longstanding rivalries between two of the country's most aggressive investigators.
In one corner stands Robert Morgenthau, 80, the powerful District Attorney, whose unsuccessful prosecution of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International earlier in this decade left Federal agencies suspect of his crusades against white-collar crime.
In the other corner is Louis J. Freeh, 49, the hard-driving director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Mr. Freeh, who began his career as an F.B.I. agent and Federal prosecutor in New York, has ample personal experience in the often-tense relations between Mr. Morgenthau's office and the bureau's agents.
The tension has been enhanced by the presence of Mary Jo White, the United States Attorney in Manhattan and a long-time rival of Mr. Morgenthau, who is working closely with the bureau.
Mr. Morgenthau has long viewed Federal investigators, particularly the F.B.I., as slow-footed and timid in their pursuit of financial criminals. The bureau considers Mr. Morgenthau an interloper who is overzealous in his attempts to broaden his jurisdiction.
Nonetheless, Mr. Morgenthau's jurisdiction is Manhattan, the financial capital of the world, and that gives him powers greater than a typical local law enforcement official's if a case revolves around white-collar crime.
Mr. Freeh has been anxious to broaden the bureau's authority as well. He has expanded its presence overseas in an effort to counter sophisticated international criminal networks that operate in the United States. That expansion has irritated some Foreign Service professionals, complicating matters for the bureau, which is often perceived as arrogant.
The stakes hold more than parochial interest. The Bank of New York affair has already touched off a broad debate about American policy in Russia, the role played by Western institutions in perhaps facilitating corruption there, and how power is wielded in an economically troubled country with stores of nuclear arms. The investigation, and any facts it may uncover, touches on all of those concerns.
 
The Conduit
So Many Dollars, So Few Accounts
The focus of the battle between Mr. Morgenthau and Mr. Freeh is Benex, a mysterious money-moving company run by an equally elusive Russian emigre named Peter Berlin.
Between 1996 and August of this year, Benex moved at least $7.5 billion from Russia through just nine accounts at the Bank of New York, according to the bank. The bank has not been charged with wrongdoing and its senior executives are not targets of the Federal investigation, according to law enforcement officials.
Although the F.B.I. has been sifting through reams of bank data for about a year, the exact source of the funds remains unclear.
Investigators say part of the money is from ordinary wire transfers and tax avoidance, much of which is perfectly legal in Russia, while some may be tied to organized crime, corporate embezzlement or political graft. Law enforcement officials say proof of the latter can only be unearthed by Russian authorities.
The pursuit of Benex began in February 1998 when Mr. Morgenthau convened a state grand jury and issued subpoenas in response to British investigators who were seeking help in examining possible money laundering through Benex.
It seemed a natural request. The British were looking into the activities of a London law firm, Talbott, Creggy & Company, which had set up offshore shell companies used to move money. Mr. Morgenthau was examining the same firm for its role in facilitating a New York-based stock fraud.
A month later, Mr. Morgenthau asked the Federal Government for help. But he did not speak with the F.B.I. Instead, he sent a memo to the Customs Service noting that large sums of money with suspect origins were flowing through Benex into accounts at the Bank of New York.
The British and American inquiries focused on a Russian emigre, Roman Amiragov, who was suspected of money laundering, and who may have been a client of Talbott, Creggy. According to law enforcement officials, Mr. Amiragov ran a company in Britain and the United States, Portrait Trading, that in early 1998 alone moved $300,000 to $500,000 a week through Benex into the Bank of New York.
Little is known about Mr. Amiragov. He and his family broke their lease and abruptly left their Jersey City apartment shortly after the Bank of New York investigation became public in August. Mr. Amiragov left the country but returned on Sept. 15. His current whereabouts could not be determined.
Officials say Mr. Morgenthau's office did not see the Bank of New York as an important part of its inquiry until very recently. The office did not issue subpoenas to the Bank of New York until shortly before the Federal investigation burst into public view, leading Federal investigators to suggest that Mr. Morgenthau's office was poaching.
In June 1998, the F.B.I began following a separate trail toward Benex and the Bank of New York. At the request of the Russian Government, the bureau looked into a kidnapping ransom paid to organized crime figures through a Benex account at the Bank of New York.
Suspicions about Benex deepened when another New York bank, Republic Bank, reported to the Federal Government that it had handled several suspicious transfers of money from Russia involving Benex.
A Federal grand jury was convened to handle the case in September 1998, and the F.B.I. approached the bank to secure its cooperation.
This move was a calculated risk. In return for a chance to monitor the flow of money through the accounts, the bureau assured senior executives that they would not be targets of the investigation, even though the bank's role in the matter was not yet entirely clear.
 
The Conflict
Confidential Data, Interagency Tussle
Bureau officials say their effort is now the biggest money-laundering investigation in history. The dragnet, involving dozens of agents and analysts examining more than 100 banks in more than 40 countries, is described by one Federal law enforcement official as "an octopus."
Word of the F.B.I.'s investigation began to spread.
In October 1998, John Moscow, a prosecutor with the District Attorney's Office, traveled to London to meet with the National Crime Squad. Mr. Moscow, also a veteran of the failed B.C.C.I. prosecution -- and also viewed dimly by the bureau, where he is considered a conspiracy theorist -- heard a lot in London about apparent money laundering at the Bank of New York.
Mr. Moscow relayed what he had learned to Jonathan Winer, a specialist in international crime at the State Department. Mr. Winer, an ally of Mr. Morgenthau's office from the B.C.C.I. days, was the first to alert the Administration to the troubling dimensions of the Bank of New York matter, information that Mr. Winer believed should have helped inform foreign and economic policy assessments of Russia.
After visiting London himself in March this year, Mr. Winer returned with a sheaf of documents and serious qualms stemming from his belief that the bureau had not notified the White House or any national security specialists about the scale of the problem.
So Mr. Winer rang a few alarms.
In March he gave copies of his documents to National Security Council officials and then notified the White House, the Central Intelligence Agency and the Justice Department.
The news was not well received at the F.B.I., where investigators discovered to their dismay that Mr. Winer was circulating information that the bureau had passed on in confidence to British investigators.
Other Federal agencies found out about the investigation piecemeal. The Treasury Department, which has played the leading role in formulating American economic policy toward Russia, did not learn about the investigation until April 1999, and its knowledge came from the Federal Reserve Bank in New York. Even the Attorney General, Janet Reno, had not received a briefing -- and did not until August, after the investigation was reported in The New York Times.
And then the real fighting began.
Mr. Morgenthau's office complained that the F.B.I. never took the Bank of New York matter seriously enough until it was highlighted in the news media. While the British were told that an F.B.I. agent in New York, Steve Chapman, was leading a task force examining the bank's operations, the British felt that Mr. Chapman was the only agent involved. According to American investigators familiar with the British viewpoint, London dismissed Mr. Chapman's effort as "Task Force Steve."
People close to the F.B.I. retort that the only reason the investigation appeared so thinly staffed is because the British were not aware of its scope.
Moreover, those people say, Mr. Morgenthau is a publicity seeker who never devoted serious resources to his own investigation of Benex until it burst into the public spotlight. Those people said that if Mr. Morgenthau ever had significant information to share about Benex or the Bank of New York, the bureau would have welcomed it.
A recent series of meetings were convened at the United States Attorney's office in Manhattan that in the eyes of the F.B.I. were meant to seek the cooperation of various law enforcement agencies in the investigation.
The District Attorney's office had a different view: Its investigators said they were told "to get out of the way."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 1999, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday described the ways in which the investigation of possible Russian money laundering through the Bank of New York had been snared in an old rivalry between the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the office of Robert Morgenthau, the Manhattan District Attorney.
In discussing Mr. Morgenthau's record, the article referred to his "unsuccessful prosecution" of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International.
The reference did not fairly characterize Mr. Morgenthau's handling of the case. While the prosecutions of some individuals failed, the article should have credited Mr. Morgenthau with important breakthroughs on the case, including helping to reveal and shut down illegal financial operations and winning more than $1.5 billion in fines, which were turned over to the bank's creditors.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Conflicts between Louis J. Freeh, left (Associated Press), the F.B.I. director, and District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau of Manhattan have made it harder to unravel how Bank of New York filtered billions of dollars from Russia. (David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION; BENEX CORP BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF NEW YORK; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION; BENEX CORP FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; ; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MONEY LAUNDERING LAW ENFORCEMENT (93%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); LAWYERS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY; BERGMAN, LOWELL; MORGENTHAU, ROBERT M (DIST ATTY); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999



657 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 10; Column 3; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: LIBRARY/CD-ROM MAPS;
Magic Carpets for Armchair Explorations

BYLINE: By SHELLY FREIERMAN 

 BODY:

NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC MAPS
(National Geographic Society; $49.95; Windows 95 and later.)
GENERATIONS of map lovers have delighted in all the sensations associated with the maps that come tucked inside National Geographic magazines: the crisp unfolding of paper and faint smell of ink as the reader bends over the table and lingers on the strange names of cities and rivers. 
 The National Geographic Society has collected every map included in the magazine through 1997 -- all 535 of them -- on a set of eight CD-ROM's. The first fold-out map, which shows the area from the Meadow Creek Mountains in Tennessee along the French Broad River to Asheville, N.C., appeared with the "Round About Asheville" article in the October 1889 issue. The last, from December 1997, is a two-sided map of Mesoamerica published with "The Royal Crypts of Copan."
"Maps are intimately intertwined with the culture" of the National Geographic Society, said Allen Carroll, chief cartographer at National Geographic Maps. "The society's more-than-century-long mission is to increase and diffuse geographic knowledge," he added. "People tend to think of photographs first, but I hope they also think of maps."
The National Geographic Society, which has sponsored exploration and anthropological and environmental research, formed its own cartographic division in 1915. Its maps have since set the standard: they are dense with raw geographical data on the physical features of the world and the names and symbols humans use to place themselves in that world. The maps in this collection offer a window onto history, war, culture, science and commerce.
And they can be downright beautiful. "Bird Migration in the Americas" (August 1979) shows the migration routes of birds from North America to South America with arrows sweeping down through the bottleneck of Central America and fanning out toward Tierra del Fuego. The continents are surrounded by drawings of the ruby-throated hummingbird, the wandering albatross, the blue-and-white sparrow and 64 other species, in full, flying color.
Where the maps alone do not tell the story, there are insets. A two-sided map that accompanied "Panama: Ever at the Crossroads" (April 1986) has a political map of Central America on one side and insets and several smaller maps on the other, with insights into archeological sites and the European invasions of the region by explorers. It also shows the economic outlook, with a map showing things like natural resources.
The CD-ROM collection also offers users historical perspectives. A 1922 map of the world contains regions at both poles marked "unexplored." "The Antarctic Regions," a 1932 map, shows the Polar Plateau with a largely empty interior, traced with the routes of the early explorers: Shackleton, Amundsen, Scott. "Antarctica" (1987) is fully mapped, with international scientific bases and detailed topographical information like ice thicknesses and mountains and glaciers, including Amundsen Glacier and Grosvenor Mountains (named for Gilbert H. Grosvenor, the first editor of The National Geographic magazine and the society's second president).
Among the many other map pairings that will interest history enthusiasts are the theater of war in 1918, paired with a 1922 map showing "Countries as Established by the Peace Conference at Paris," and a map of the races of Europe and Africa from 1918, with "Dawn of Humans" (1997).
To provide users with context, the software includes a history of cartography ("from the first line drawn in the sand") and a history of the National Geographic Society.
There are also nine video tours, on topics like European history, Canadian history and the environment. "You can't assume that everyone who picks one of these maps up is a map geek," said Bob Madden, editorial director of the CD-ROM set.
The set's most cumbersome aspect -- that it is included on eight CD-ROM's, which users must slip in and out of the drive to view the maps -- has been mitigated by several search and sorting provisions. The maps can be searched on any of the CD-ROM's by categories like politics or history, and by geographic regions like North America or space. Each map can be viewed in a thumbnail version, and users can call up a summary with the map's title, publication date, size and geographic names; a list of the insets, and the title of the article (if any) relating to the map. Users can also keep several maps open on their screen, even after switching CD-ROM's.
The printing feature of the CD-ROM set is flexible: each map can be sized to fit a standard page or printed on several pieces of paper. The printouts are clear and easy to read, and the subtle colors reproduce well. There is little to complain about in this software, but it would be nice if the map summary had a synopsis of the articles the maps appeared with and if the summary could be called up from the map image and not just from the search page.
Navigation within the maps is typical of map software: the viewer can zoom in and out, using a thumbnail image to center the map in the viewing window and a Find button to search for places or insets. The maps can also be "turned over" so users can see the back of any two-sided map.
Users can view a list of alternative place names since borders, cities and countries on maps have changed with wars, colonialism and independence movements: Burma became Myanmar, for example, and St. Petersburg became Leningrad, and then St. Petersburg again.
"Maps present a hierarchy of information," Mr. Carroll said. "You need a mental or visual starting point. With a map of central Texas, there are a lot of lines and squiggles and names, but if Houston and Dallas are in big type, you can say, 'I know where I am.' "
Map-making today combines technology with graphic traditions, Mr. Carroll added. "If the information is not presented properly," he said, "it is almost worthless: counterintuitive software has the important stuff buried, and a poorly designed map can be a jumble of confusing code. We've all encountered ugly software, and the same is true of maps. Maps should be as accurate as possible and as beautiful as possible."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC3069 FABRICATED RUBBER PRODUCTS, NEC (91%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (91%); ANTARCTICA (86%); PANAMA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY NATIONAL LATEX PRODUCTS CO (91%); NATIONAL SUPER SERVICE CO (91%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (94%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (94%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (91%); ANTARCTICA (86%); PANAMA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MAPS; CD-ROM (COMPACT DISK-READ ONLY MEMORY); COMPUTER SOFTWARE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET GEOGRAPHY (91%); BIRDS (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (88%); HISTORY (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (76%); ORNITHOLOGY (70%); ARCHAEOLOGY (67%); HISTORIC SITES (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: FREIERMAN, SHELLY

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



658 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 2; Circuits 

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Geography: Mapping Unknowns Of Cyberspace

BYLINE: By PAMELA LICALZI O'CONNELL 

 BODY:
THE mapping of that vast territory known as cyberspace has begun in earnest.
Cyberspace maps are being produced by geographers, cartographers, artists and computer scientists. They range from glorious depictions of globe-spanning communications networks to maps of Web information. 
 Many have no geographic references, instead turning to nature, the cosmos or neuroscience for spatial models. They stretch the definition of a map in their effort to capture, sometimes fancifully, what is sometimes referred to as the "common mental geography" that lies beyond computer screens.
The maps hold the potential to change, subtly or perhaps more directly, the relationship of the average person to cyberspace, the world of electronic communication that includes but is not limited to the Internet. How people envision the on-line landscape influences their behavior there, experts say.
"We need maps not just to navigate but to define and control new territory," said Martin Dodge, a researcher in the Center for Advanced Spatial Analysis at University College London. "Simply having a map allows a new perspective, a new way to orient yourself. Relationships otherwise obscure may be revealed."
The largest collection of maps can be found at Mr. Dodge's Web site, An Atlas of Cyberspaces (cybergeography.com). The dozens of examples there include many that arise from science and instrumentation, while others are more products of imagination.
"We are in the very early stage of map making -- these maps are far from perfect at the moment," Mr. Dodge said. "Most have been produced outside traditional cartography by people such as data visualization researchers who may not even call their results a map."
Maps of cyberspace fall into two categories: those depicting the physical structure and information traffic patterns of global networks, and those addressing the content and social spaces of the electronic world.
Structural maps, although seemingly straightforward, have proved quite thorny to create. Since the National Science Foundation relinquished its stewardship of the Internet in 1995, there has been no central source of information about the Net's backbone networks and traffic. Instead, there is a jumble of networks owned by phone companies and Internet service providers, some of which do not share information, for competitive reasons.
The Cooperative Association for Internet Data Analysis, or Caida, at the University of California at San Diego develops tools to collect and analyze data about the Net, like the specific paths a test packet of information may follow.
"We are not at a point yet where we are drawing maps with any compelling utility for any particular community," said K. C. Claffy, a researcher with the association, via E-mail. "Though at the same time I contend we are doing 'state of the art' stuff at the frontier of this field. I just think the field's pretty young right now."
Useful or not, the Internet analysis group's maps can be quite beautiful. Some look like pointillist paintings. Others have brightly colored grids and globe-spanning arches, suggesting a world that is deeply, even inescapably, interconnected.
Connectivity, not necessarily geography or distance, is the primary parameter of a cyberspace map, said Gregory C. Staple, president of Telegeography, a company in Washington that provides statistics and maps of the telecommunications industry. His company has produced maps of "telecontinents," redrawing countries and coastlines to show how the flow of communications has created a new economic geography. At a glance, these maps reveal areas that are the telecommunications haves and have-nots, which Mr. Staple calls "the deep-water ports and teledeserts" of the information age (there are many more deserts than ports). Telegeography also offers maps of the Internet through its Peacock Maps subsidiary (peacockmaps.com).
Geography is completely shunned by some mappers, like William Cheswick, a researcher at Lucent Technologies' Bell Laboratories. "I want to take the Net on its own terms -- it's its own space," Mr. Cheswick argued. "Geographical maps I've seen have not worked very well. They're very blobby."
His maps, like those from the Cooperative Association for Internet Data Analysis, are based on information probes sent to tens of thousands of destinations on the Net. Maps resulting from such probes are featured on his Web site (www.cs.bell-labs.com/who/ches/map /index.html). They look something like promiscuously propagating sea ferns, with countless feathery vines.
Are they useful? Although his maps may inspire awe because of their complexity, Mr. Cheswick explains that until such maps are interactive, allowing access to the database that created them, they are more powerful as symbols, perhaps, than as maps.
Most so-called content maps are interactive and are focused on the portion of cyberspace now most populated: the Web. They are, Mr. Staple said, "the equivalent of land-use maps in the traditional cartographic world."
A new site called Newsmaps.com (newsmaps.com) creates "visual information landscapes" -- grid-based topographical maps -- of Web-based news articles and on-line discussion groups on topics like fears of year 2000 computer problems. Peaks appear on the map where there is a high concentration of documents or messages about the same topic. The distance between peaks shows how topics are related.
In a different approach, the artificial intelligence laboratory in the management information systems department at the University of Arizona at Tucson (ai.bpa.arizona.edu/start.html) drew a map of more than 100,000 entertainment Web sites pulled from Yahoo's database using an automatic-indexing system. The map looks something like a jigsaw puzzle with colored pieces. Users can select categories like movies or comics, or terms like "love" or "beer," and the map will adjust, "shifting down a layer" until a customized map listing specific sites is reached, explained Dr. Hsinchun Chen, head of the laboratory.
Lee Boot doesn't deal in math-based systems. Mr. Boot, a self-described "telemedia" artist who teaches film, video and computer art to high school students in Baltimore County, Md., recently created what he calls a Web Map About Teen-Agers' Happiness (www.bcpl .net/lboot/webmap2). "Mapping and diagramming is basic to the kind of art that I do," Mr. Boot said. "My map is crafted rather than automatic."
The map itself suggests doodles from a brainstorming session. Words of different sizes and colors are arranged within seemingly penciled circles, and lines indicate relationships between terms. A click on a word (say, "drugs") takes you to a site Mr. Boot has chosen on his theme of teen-age happiness. It is, he writes on his site, an attempt both to create "a visual presence" for an issue and to suggest his feelings about it.
Mr. Boot's map was included in an on-line exhibition titled Omnizone: Mapping Perspectives of Digital Culture (www.plexus.org/omnizone), in which artists were asked to contribute "artworks that function (however obtusely) as maps of digital space and culture," a guideline to which most contributors religiously adhered. Another on-line exhibition, an ongoing effort by the Guggenheim Museum called Cyberatlas, set its sites a little broader by not limiting the maps included to those dealing with cultural content (cyberatlas .guggenheim.org/home/index.html). Almost all the maps in both exhibitions are interactive.
"We need to find representations of cyberspace that encourage us to see advantages we can exploit -- ways we can bend and stretch the metaphor of space into new possibilities," said Jon Ippolito, the assistant curator of media arts for the Guggenheim and organizer of the Cyberatlas project. "We don't want to be stuck in older geometries."
Is a map of cyberspace, particularly the Web, needed at all? Lev Manovich, an artist and assistant professor in the visual arts department at the University of California at San Diego, argues that the hyperlinked Web "is in a way its own map -- its own reality."
"It's not like a painting, which is a representation of reality," he said.
Still, some people see it as something close to a moral imperative to develop cyberspace maps.
Bruce Sterling, a science fiction author and self-described pop-science journalist, says that such maps could alter our experience of the on-line world. "The best maps won't be true to our experience -- they will serve to refigure and change our experience," he said. "What makes the invisible visible? New metaphors, sometimes, but I'd be betting on better instrumentation. A picture of the Earth from space did more for environmental awareness than any number of ecological urban legends."
The era of personal maps that can provide that sort of perspective is approaching. A company called Invisible Worlds (invisible.net), founded by two men who have helped developed many Internet technology standards, Carl Malamud and Marshall Rose, is readying the underlying technology that will allow such maps to be created and shared. Although the demonstration on the Web site is not visually compelling, the company hopes that independent developers will create various appealing interfaces as the technology catches on.
"Having maps will be like turning on the lights on the information," Mr. Malamud said. "Regular people can experience the structure of the Net as a tool they can use. We can create a conception of space that is good and usable."
The essence of Invisible Worlds' idea is to provide an Up button for people traveling in cyberspace to go along with the current, and restrictively linear, Forward and Back controls. By providing a vista from above, Mr. Malamud said, the user's "viewpoint becomes one of the parameters of the map, or even the key parameter."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: DATA ARCS -- A map by researchers at Lucent Technologies' Bell Labs that represents Internet traffic flow. (Lucent Technologies)(pg. G7); Cyberspace maps can take many forms, including a multilayered map of the space represented by 100,000 entertainment-related Web addresses, above; a real-time representation of Web traffic, far left, and the featherlike tracings of data routes, left. (University of Arizona; Lucent Technologies and Telegeography, 1999; (University of Illinois)(pg. 1)
 
Map: UNDERGROUND INSPIRATION -- A Web site map patterned after maps of London's subway system. (British Telecommunications P.L.C.)(pg. G7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PEACOCK MAPS (65%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MAPS GEOGRAPHY (93%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (61%); 

PERSON: DODGE, MARTIN; HERSZENHORN, DAVID M WILLIAM CHESWICK (64%); MARTIN DODGE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



659 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section F; Page 10; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: TURF;
As Market Booms, Real Estate Brokers Slip Their Chains

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

DATELINE: ROSCOE, N.Y.

 BODY:
BOB LAMBRIGGER, 61, the owner of a small real estate company here in self-proclaimed Trout Town, U.S.A., wheeled his pickup truck into the dirt driveway of a printing contractor. He was picking up his new brochures -- the ones without the Century 21 logo.
Over the summer, Mr. Lambrigger cut the cord binding his company to the national chain. "I felt my agents were bringing in all the business themselves, and I was left with just paying the fees," said Mr. Lambrigger, who five years ago paid $25,000 for a five-year franchise, and until August, surrendered 8 percent of every sales commission to the chain. 
 When he signed up, Mr. Lambrigger said he thought the real estate chains, brand names like Century 21, Prudential and Coldwell Banker, were the wave of the future. But now, he's not so sure. With business booming in his little four-agent office, he said he could make as much money as he had with the affiliation, and keep all the commissions.
Mr. Lambrigger thought that Century 21 was going to send him customers, what in the trade are called referrals, from all over the country. He thought the company's Web site would be another draw. "But up here in the country, we ended up feeling abandoned," he said. "All the stuff they promised us didn't materialize, and we hated writing those monthly checks when it was all our own hard work."
Mr. Lambrigger is not alone.
For the first time since 1978, the percentage of local companies affiliated with the large national real estate companies has decreased. According to statistics about to be released by the National Association of Realtors in Washington, independent local companies affiliated with franchises increased steadily, from 17 percent in 1978 to 37 percent in 1996, the last time the association did a national survey.
But for 1999, the figure has dropped to just over 33 percent, not a big drop, but a significant one, said Kevin Roth, a senior economist for the association. "We think it's a trend," he added.
But Ted Deutsch, a spokesman for Cendant, the conglomerate that owns Century 21, ERA and Coldwell Banker, said that the drop was only part of the picture, adding that he believes the total dollar amount of real estate sold by the affiliates, compared with the independents, is probably on the increase. But he conceded that during a hot real estate market like today's, companies might not feel so much pressure to come under a corporate umbrella and share their commissions, but instead drop out of an affiliation or not sign up at all.
Advocates of franchise affiliation insist that the consumer benefits when dealing with a nationally known name. In some cases, they say, the chain or its corporate parent owns a mortgage company, security company or other service and can deliver "one stop shopping." (Cendant, for instance, owns Avis, Welcome Wagon and a mortgage company.) And perhaps most significant, they point to the chains' national referral network, allowing a Prudential seller in California access to Prudential listings in New York City, for instance, making the transition from coast to coast smoother.
But brokers who resist affiliation argue that it can be a costly waste of bookkeeping time, with no benefit at all to the customer, and can even distract a broker from the business of helping a buyer find a home. In the end, agents say, it all boils down to where the customer is looking for a house.
"I've no doubt that in some parts of the country, a national affiliation can be valuable" to real estate companies, said Frederick W. Peters, the former co-chairman of the Real Estate Board of New York's residential division. "It puts a stamp of respectability and even gives some marketing clout. And if the office is properly located, it can benefit from a stream of referral business."
In Manhattan, he continued, national chains have had a hard time getting started. "New Yorkers are by nature contrarian," he said. "A big national chain that plays well in Peoria makes them think it's not sophisticated or cool enough" for New York buyers and sellers.
Nevertheless, owners of large Manhattan companies, most of whom said they had been repeatedly approached by the chains, explained that they were keeping an eye on the progress of one local agency, Hunt Kennedy, which three years ago became Coldwell Banker Hunt Kennedy. There, JoAnne Kennedy said, business went up 53 percent since affiliation with the chain, which has 2,800 offices nationwide. Last year, she said, she got 120 deals from referrals, compared with fewer than 20 before then. She said the wider scope allowed her to offer customers the use of the chain's national Web site and to benefit from promotions created at the chain's headquarters.
Mr. Deutsch, the spokesman for Cendant, whose three real estate companies do 20 to 25 percent of the country's real estate business, said that those companies combined lost more than 100 agencies in the last year. He declined to say how many new agencies signed up.
But he argued that an average of 90 percent of Cendant's affiliates renew their affiliations for 5 or 10 years, depending on their contracts. Spokesmen for Better Homes and Gardens and Prudential, two other national chains, declined to produce statistics on dropouts or sign-ups.
Mr. Lambrigger said that he thought small, very local companies like his could give better service to the consumer if their owners didn't have to worry about the paperwork necessary to being part of a chain. There were also daylong meetings that he and other owners were supposed to attend at the company's New Jersey headquarters, taking more time from his work.
At Cendant, Mr. Deutsch acknowledged that the company had reduced the number of field representatives who visit and counsel local affiliates. But he argued that a $25 million investment in improving electronic communications from headquarters made Cendant's service to local franchises "better than ever."
Mrs. Kennedy, the Coldwell Banker booster from Manhattan, agreed with the Catskills broker that "the tone definitely changed" when Cendant took over the business and decreased the number of visits in the field.
At first, she also worried that her co-op customers would have difficulty overcoming Coldwell Banker's suburban image, which she labeled "the house and the tree," although she says house hunters have become more familiar with the brand name in Manhattan. And there were problems at first about finding Manhattan properties on the company's Web sites. She said that those have now been solved.
Clark Halstead, who heads the Halstead Property Company, New York's third-largest real estate organization, refers to the affiliations as Rent-a-Brand. He maintains that an affiliation with Century 21, Prudential, Remax or the other national chains "dilutes the name of a good local agency, rather than adds to it," making it less attractive to customers.
Mr. Halstead maintained that the chains with a New York presence -- Prudential and Coldwell Banker -- are not "injecting any money or capital for advertising or anything else" into their local affiliates.
Mrs. Kennedy is the first to agree. "We give them money," she said wryly. "The biggest thing is the brand name recognition, and that's really powerful."
During a visit, she pulled out Coldwell Banker's brochure (sold to her at a discount price), advertising the chain's new "concierge service," where the agent supervises things like turning on the gas, electric and cable service, and getting the apartment cleaned for the housewarming.
Mr. Halstead was, not surprisingly, skeptical. "But the agents already do that," he grumbled. "I can't tell you how many times I've been trying to find one of my agents and been told she's waiting for the cable guy to show up!"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Cartoon (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FRANCHISES; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS REAL ESTATE (93%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (91%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); TRENDS (77%); SALES FORCE (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); STATISTICS (69%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE BOB LAMBRIGGER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



660 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:

EURO RISES. The euro strengthened against the dollar as comments by the vice president of the European Central Bank increased expectations the bank will raise interest rates. The euro rose to 1.0641 from 1.0554.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since January. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EURO (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRENDS (86%); INTEREST RATES (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



661 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Rise of 0.9% In Durable Goods Orders

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29

 BODY:
Orders to factories for big-ticket manufactured goods unexpectedly rose nine-tenths of a percent in August, led by an increase in demand for airplanes, automobiles and other transportation equipment, a Government report said today.
The Commerce Department report said orders for durable goods -- items expected to last at least three years -- grew in August to a seasonally adjusted $206.9 billion. 
 The increase followed a revised gain of 4 percent in July, which was larger than the Government had previously estimated. July's performance was the biggest one-month gain since November 1997, when durable-goods orders rose 4.4 percent.
August's performance, the 12th increase in the last 15 months, was the reverse of the expectations of many analysts, who had, on average, estimated that orders would fall nine-tenths of a percent.
"This report indicates that manufacturers, which have been suffering, continue to recover and the prospects for the future are that they will continue to improve," said Mark Zandi, an economist with Regional Financial Associates.
Despite the strong report, Mr. Zandi and other analysts said they did not expect the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates for a third time this year when it meets next Tuesday.
Orders for transportation equipment posted the biggest gain in August, rising 4.6 percent to the highest level since May, when orders rose 9.9 percent. That was the fourth consecutive increase. In July, orders for transportation equipment rose 2 percent.
The transportation sector is often volatile from month to month because it includes items like aircraft. The increase in transportation orders comes as the auto industry expects record sales in 1999.
August's overall increase came despite decreases in some areas, including industrial machinery, electronics and electrical equipment.
Excluding transportation, overall orders for durable goods fell two-tenths of a percent in August, the fifth decrease in the last eight months.
While on the rebound, American manufacturers have been battered by a global financial crisis, which has cut sharply into their overseas sales and opened them up to competition from less expensive imports.
The overall economy, however, has continued to thrive, powered by strong consumer demand.
Shipments of big-ticket durable goods, a good sign of current demand, rose 1.3 percent in August.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Ordered" plots manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, from March 1999 through Aug. 1999. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); FACTORY ORDERS (94%); DURABLE GOODS (94%); TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); INTEREST RATES (51%); 

PERSON: MARK ZANDI (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



662 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Dot-com companies have built their brands by using more ads, in good taste or not. Often not.

BYLINE: By Patricia Winters Lauro 

 BODY:
ONE television commercial for Outpost.com featured gerbils shot out of a cannon. Another, for Ecampus.com, offered a college kid belching the alphabet.
This is dot-com -- home of some of the best and worst advertising in the industry. Dot-com advertising seems to be the place where practically no bodily function is too private and no rude behavior too coarse to be featured in a spot. It is also the habitat of clever and ingenious creativity that takes risks in the high-stakes race for category dominance on the Internet. 
 "First and foremost the job of dot-com advertising is to gain top-of-mind awareness," said Brian Mulhern, senior vice president at Cliff Freeman & Partners in New York, a unit of Saatchi & Saatchi P.L.C. that creates Outpost.com advertising. "When I sit down to buy on the Internet, if I don't remember the actual name of the site and remember it first, then there's no chance that that company is going to get my sale."
And, appropriate for the Internet, speed is everything. The speed at which an Internet company can establish brand awareness is key. Some five million new households will come on line this year, bringing the number of Internet-accessible households in the United States to 39 million, according to Charlene Li, senior analyst with Forrester Research.
"It's very important to establish brand awareness right now," said Ms. Li. "It's all about capturing and retaining customers."
While taking risks is anathema in the corporate world, dot-com advertisers say there is little choice. They have a lot of money from venture capital and initial public offerings and an edict from investors to acquire customers fast.
"These are companies that need to create brands within very short order," said Ellis Verdi, president of DeVito/Verdi in New York, which creates the Ecampus.com advertising. "Wall Street is expecting results in months, and that almost requires that they push the envelope. There's a sense that there's one big gold pile out there and everyone is running for it."
During the first six months of 1999, companies advertising on-line services spent $755 million, up from $230 million for the first half of 1998, according to Competitive Media Reporting, which tracks advertising spending. More spending is projected as the fourth quarter shapes up to be a crucial time for many dot-com retailers that are trying to grab holiday shopping sales for the first time.
"With increased competition among Web sites -- and there seems to be a million of them -- you have to be out there in the marketplace just to be seen, and whoever shouts loudest will come out on top," said Eric Goldberg, a media planner with DeWitt Media in New York.
Mr. Goldberg predicts that heavy dot-com advertising will contribute to a tight media inventory next year, which could push up prices.
Because Web companies and services are new, Ms. Lee said the advertising did not have to protect existing brand images. And because the companies are part of the Internet, Ms. Lee said consumers understand that Web advertisers have more "license to be wacky."
A sampling:
*A commercial for Beyond.com, tagged "the place to buy software," features a corporate drop-out who works in the nude at home, much to the chagrin of neighbors.
*To get its tag -- "Textbooks and stuff. Cheap" -- across, Ecampus.com shows a college student so broke that he resorts to frying a pet goldfish for dinner.
*In a spot for Outpost.com, a pack of wolves is released among a high school marching band after it forms the word Outpost.com. The reason? To get viewers "to remember our name," according to an announcer.
The companies do not seem overly concerned about offending people. Mr. Mulhern said Outpost.com received about 17,000 letters concerning the spot that featured the gerbils, with 60 percent expressing support for the ad. Only a handful of consumers even commented on the band commercial, he said.
Still, one inherent danger of bizarre advertising is that viewers will not know what is being advertised, Mr. Verdi said.
With that in mind, Mr. Mulhern said that Outpost.com's second flurry of ads -- spoofs of 1950's science- fiction movies -- promotes various benefits the company offers, including free overnight delivery of goods.
"We seeded our name with the original campaign, now we really need to differentiate the company from everyone else," he said.
A lot of the advertising needs to be sharp because it is intended to reach hip, young people. Boo.com, a site that will begin operations later this year, will sell sports apparel and footwear and offer advertising that features anti-fashion figures: computer geeks. TV ads to be shown in November will depict geeks trying desperately to participate in sports. Print ads, taken from the television spots, feature scenes like a geek in running shorts on a stretcher.
Karen Shapiro, Boo.com director of marketing, says geeks are cool and the perfect anti-status image. NBC recently began a TV series called "Freaks and Geeks." "Geeks have become heroes, they're chic," she said.
The outrageousness of some dot-com advertising has forced brick-and-mortar companies like Staples Inc. to reconsider whether their on-line advertising is outrageous enough -- and they haven't always opted to go that extra step.
"When we looked at the landscape of on-edge advertising, we saw that they were doing things to get people's attention and perhaps shock them into logging on," said Jeanne Lewis, president of the Staples.com unit. "But we realized we didn't need to do that because we already have a creative strategy with our existing advertising that does get noticed."
Still, Ms. Lewis said she appreciated a lot of the dot-com advertising for its edginess.
"I think the ideal is to combine the newest techniques out there with some good basic marketing fundamentals that can't be forgotten," Ms. Lewis said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: COMPETITIVE MEDIA REPORTING SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (69%); CLIFF FREEMAN & PARTNERS (56%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPETITIVE MEDIA REPORTING

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BRANDING (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); AWARENESS MARKETING (89%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (75%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BRAND EQUITY (71%); RETAILERS (71%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (68%); RETAIL SALES (60%); 

PERSON: LAURO, PATRICIA WINTERS ANN LIVERMORE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



663 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Avon's Stock Declines 27% After Warning About Profit

BYLINE: By DANA CANEDY 

 BODY:
Avon Products Inc. yesterday became the latest multinational consumer products company to be pummeled by investors after management announced a surprise warning that it expected to report disappointing financial results.
Avon shares fell $9.875, or 27.6 percent, to close at $25.8125 after the company said it was suffering from weak economies abroad, currency volatility and stiff domestic competition. The announcement came a day after the Gillette Company made a similar announcement. 
 Avon, the door-to-door cosmetics seller, said it would meet expectations of earning 34 cents a share in the third quarter, which ends today, but would probably be short of analysts' estimates for the fourth quarter. Analysts had expected profit of 63 cents a share in the fourth quarter, but Avon said yesterday that it expected profits to be even with or only slightly higher than the 56 cents earned in the period a year ago.
Avon, which is based in New York, gets two-thirds of its profits from outside the United States but is being hit by domestic woes as well.
Largely because of a currency devaluation in Brazil and increased competition and heavy sales discounts in Mexico, "results are not expected to reach the level previously anticipated" in Latin America, said Charles R. Perrin, chairman and chief executive.
"In addition, in the U.S., trends in beauty sales in the fourth quarter are expected to improve significantly over third quarter, but we are seeing weakness in early sales of holiday gifts, causing us to revise the sales outlook in the U.S.," Mr. Perrin said. Avon had expected domestic revenue to increase by 5 percent but now says it will not meet that target.
For the year, Avon expects to report a double-digit increase in profit over last year's $1.48 a share. Analysts polled by First Call had expected the company to earn $1.71 but revised the number yesterday to $1.64. Some also downgraded the stock, despite Avon's assurances that it was adopting a growth strategy and expected sales growth to pick up next year.
In the United States market, the company is facing an image problem as it tries to further broaden its appeal beyond customers loyal to the Avon Lady, analysts said. "I've never seen a successful attempt to take a brand that is on one level and try to take it up market," said Melissa Grant, an analyst with Warburg Dillon Read L.L.C. LIke such formidable competing brands as Revlon and Cover Girl, Avon is a well-known franchise but suffers from a low-brow image that has long "had a certain stigma attached to it," Ms. Grant said.
Yet while investors were clearly caught off guard by the weakness on Avon's home turf, they were reacting in large part to the troubles abroad. "The problem with the stock today is that there is a lot of confusion over what is going to happen next year and whether Latin America is going to be a lingering problem," said Robert Izmirlian, an analyst with S&P Equity Group.
Avon's warning came a day after Gillette, the Boston-based maker of razors and blades, similarly stunned investors by forecasting bad news. Gillette said after the market closed on Tuesday that results in its third quarter would not meet forecasts because of weak economies abroad, currency translation issues and weakness in its Braun and stationery businesses. Investors sent the stock to a three-year low yesterday at $33.4375, down $3.5625, or 9.6 percent. Shares of other consumer giants that have recently had trouble abroad, including the Procter & Gamble Company, also declined yesterday. P.& G.'s stock closed at $95.8125, down $3.125, or 3.2 percent.
"I think this is the kind of thing we need to expect more in the future," Mr. Izmirlian said. In times of economic turmoil abroad, "it's not always easy to assess the magnitude of the effect on a company," he said. "In the past, these companies really had some steep multiples; going forward, investors need to be a little more cautious."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AVP (NYSE) (95%); PGP (PAR) (72%); PG (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (95%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (72%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (72%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AVON PRODUCTS INC AVON PRODUCTS INC (95%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (72%); UBS SECURITIES LLC (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: AVON PRODUCTS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (79%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (79%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); TRENDS (78%); COSMETICS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); DEVALUATION (71%); BRANDING (60%); 

PERSON: CANEDY, DANA

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



664 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1733 words

HEADLINE: A Corporate Chess Game;
Copper Industry Rivals in Nasty, Convoluted Negotiations

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
Last Friday, top executives from three of the nation's top copper companies secretly convened in a room at the Trump International Hotel in Manhattan to try to resolve one of the nastiest, most convoluted corporate takeover fights in recent years. When they emerged more than two hours later, it was nastier and more convoluted than ever.
The meeting brought together Douglas Yearley, chairman of Phelps Dodge, the nation's largest copper producer, with the chief executives of two competitors, Asarco Inc. and the Cyprus Amax Minerals Company, that had agreed last July to merge with each other. Mr. Yearley, rather than see his smaller rivals join hands, had started his own $2.8 billion hostile offer to acquire both of them for Phelps Dodge. Finally, after weeks of rebuffing Mr. Yearley, Francis McAllister of Asarco and Milton Ward of Cyprus Amax had agreed to talk. 
 Mr. Yearley presented his best offer, he recalled. But he was not willing to meet their demand -- $3.1 billion for the combination. When the meeting broke up, Mr. Yearley was still determined to own both companies and Mr. McAllister and Mr. Ward, eager to protect their interests, quickly began a search for a white knight, adding yet another player to the corporate chess game.
Six months ago, a brawl in the copper industry was unthinkable. Ailing economies in Asia and Latin America had left demand for copper waning. Prices plummeted to a 12-year low then -- a paltry 63 cents a pound. Profits at copper mining companies tumbled, with some companies forced to cut production to help arrest the price slide. In fact, it was the industry's bleak prospects that proved to be the catalyst that prompted Mr. McAllister to talk to Mr. Ward in the first place last May.
How quickly that world has changed. Copper prices have risen 33 percent since then. Now, Asarco and Cyprus Amax, instead of being left alone to embrace each other out of desperation, have, in effect, become much more valuable prizes on the auction block.
Indeed, as soon as they walked out of the meeting last Friday, the two sought a bid from Grupo Mexico, a Mexican copper producer and Asarco's largest shareholder. Grupo Mexico, which had been watching the action for a while, immediately offered to pay $1.03 billion in cash for Asarco, barely edging out Phelps Dodge's $1.01 billion stock and cash offer. Asarco and Cyprus Amax, essentially acknowledging that their original deal was no longer viable, postponed shareholder votes scheduled for today on the merger, giving each other until Tuesday to reconsider their options.
The four-way fight is indicative of what has happened in stagnant commodity-driven industries seeking some way to shore up production without losing their shirts in the process. Low prices in slow-growing industries, including oil, aluminum, copper and chemicals, have made even the most unattractive partners appealing to formidable competitors hoping to cut costs and restore profitability to their slim-margin businesses. And with 1980's style corporate takeover tactics back in vogue, properties expected to benefit from rising prices are now worth fighting over.
"When copper was 65 cents per pound, no one thought anyone would have been fighting over these two companies," said Tom Burnett, founder of Merger Insight, which is based in New York. "The worm has turned. Commodity prices are on the move and companies don't want to be left behind."
Spokesmen for Asarco and Grupo Mexico said executives would not comment on recent events. Executives at Cyprus Amax did not return phone calls. But people involved in the talks said Cyprus Amax had been scouting for another partner and could possibly strike a deal soon with Phelps Dodge. Asarco, too, has been negotiating with other suitors this week.
Mr. McAllister of Asarco, who became chief executive last spring, never planned for his company to become a target, executives close to him said. Instead his solution to Asarco's woes was for him to act as buyer, squeezing savings out of any merged entity. Mr. McAllister wanted to turn Asarco's fortunes around, one person said, and he found a willing partner in the older Mr. Ward, who was looking for a successor.
Several people involved in the negotiations said Mr. Ward had already approached a handful of potential merger partners for Cyprus Amax last year. So it was with little fanfare on July 15 that Mr. Ward and Mr. McAllister announced that their companies would join forces in a merger of equals, valued then at $737 million in stock. Stock traders yawned at the news: the stock of both companies dropped 3 percent on the day the deal was announced.
Analysts at the time said the ho-hum response came because shareholders of neither company were paid a premium and they did not understand how the duo could successfully improve profit margins without cutting production. "People wanted to see how they'd perform before they bid up the stock," said Ali Agha, a metals and mining analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. But the merger did catch the attention of Mr. Yearley, who said he thought a three-way merger with Asarco and Cyprus Amax could be just the ticket to make Phelps Dodge the premier low-cost global copper producer.
Phelps Dodge is one of the few copper companies to turn a profit. And after mulling over the combination, he said he called both Mr. Ward and Mr. McAllister on Aug. 10 to propose they meet. The two rebuffed his offer, saying their merger agreement barred them from independently talking to other suitors. Still, Mr. Yearley followed up with a letters to the chief executives and boards, requesting a reply within a week.
None came, until the two companies publicly dismissed the Phelps Dodge offer on Aug. 20 and reconfirmed their own merger. So Phelps Dodge went public with a sweeter offer that day, offering stock for the pair with a combined value of $2.6 billion, a 30 percent premium to the companies' trading prices the previous day. Five days later, Asarco and Cyprus Amax snubbed that bid, suggesting they would be willing to negotiate only if Phelps Dodge put a much better deal on the table.
To deter stockholder interest in the Phelps Dodge bid, Asarco and Cyprus Amax also sweetened the terms of their own merger, offering an extra payment of $5 a share in cash once the deal was completed. Undaunted, Phelps Dodge began a tender offer for shares in the two companies on Sept. 3.
Mr. Yearley was not the only interested party, however. Grupo Mexico, Mexico's largest diversified mining company, owned a 9.7 percent stake in Asarco, the largest single holding. Its chairman, German Larrea, watched the brouhaha intensely. Not only was he interested in getting the best price for his shares, executives said, he was also potentially interested in a piece of the action himself. Mr. Larrea, according to documents recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, held separate meetings in late August and early September in Mexico City with Mr. McAllister of Asarco. Executives from Phelps Dodge also tried to woo him to vote for their bid, Mr. Yearley said.
At the same time, Mr. Larrea was an attentive suitor. An executive involved with the company said Mr. Larrea "didn't want to do something hostile" after Asarco's announcement in July. But now, with Phelps Dodge in the picture, he said, Mr. Larrea "perceived himself as the good guy." A spokesman for Mr. Larrea said he was not granting interviews.
Mr. Larrea had a problem, though. Because Grupo Mexico's stock did not trade in the United States, it would have to offer cash. So the company hired Chase Securities Inc. as its adviser and to arrange financing for its bid.
Enthusiasm for Phelps Dodge's offer was growing, meanwhile, on Wall Street, particularly after the company increased its bids again, on Sept. 22, to a stock-and-cash offer worth about $2.8 billion for the two companies together. Regulators were believed to be giving the nod to the three-way merger, despite initial antitrust concerns, according to executives involved in the talks.
Asarco and Cyprus Amax, after finally agreeing to meet Mr. Yearley, laid out several demands at the session last Friday. First, Mr. Yearley said, they wanted Phelps Dodge to pay a 55 percent premium to their stocks' prices before the Phelps Dodge bid on Aug. 20. Next, they wanted Phelps Dodge to take the risk of any antitrust approval. They also wanted to avoid paying a $45 million breakup fee for canceling their merger. Top executives' pay packages would have to be honored. If Mr. Yearley could agree to those terms, he had a deal.
Mr. Yearley said he agreed to almost everything except price. Already Phelps Dodge was offering about a 40 percent premium to buy the companies, "we thought we'd gone far enough," he said.
But the skirmish took an unexpected twist later that afternoon. A representative of Credit Suisse First Boston, which was advising Asarco, contacted Mr. Larrea of Grupo Mexico, documents filed with the S.E.C. show, and made him an offer: Asarco would be willing to consider "an all-cash firm offer for all of its shares at $26 per share." Cyprus Amax was mentioned, too, but Grupo Mexico was not interested, an executive involved with the companies said.
An executive involved in the talks said Asarco executives did not know that Mr. Larrea was interested in buying the company -- despite having had several discussions with key executives at Asarco -- describing the call as "one of those interesting coincidences."
That night, Grupo Mexico announced its plans to start a tender offer for Asarco for $26 a share, slightly higher than the $25.47 Phelps Dodge had proposed two days earlier. "As you know, in the past we have expressed an interest in exploring the possibility of a combination of our two companies' operations," Mr. Larrea wrote in a letter to Mr. McAllister that evening. "Briefly put, we believe our proposal is in the best interest of your shareholders."
As advisers and executives sort through the offers this week, it is not yet clear which company will buy Asarco or Cyprus Amax, or if they end up together.
But ultimately, one banker involved in the deal said, "It was a good attempt that didn't work out that well." More to the point, he added, "Although it will end up being good for shareholders, it may not be necessarily be good for management."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: A worker tucks the end of a finished copper wire into its reel at a Phelps Dodge copper refinery and rod factory in El Paso. (United Press International); Francis McAllister; Milton Ward
 
Chart/Photos: "King of the Copper Hill"
It started as a friendly effort to bring together two ailing copper companies. But it has now turned into a 1980's style corporate brawl among four rivals to emerge as the dominant producer in the industry.
 
MAY 4
Francis McAllister, Asarco's chief executive, calls Milton Ward, the chief of Cyprus Amax, about a potential deal.
 
JULY 15
Asarco and Cyprus Amax agree to a merge of equals.
 
AUGUST 10
Douglas Yealy, Phelps Dodge's chief executive, approaches the Asarco and Cyprus Amax chiefs to propose a friendly three-way merger. But the others refuse to discuss anything that interfere's with their own deal.
 
AUGUST 11
Phelps Dodge sends a letter detailing bids to the boards of Asarco and Cyprus Amax.
 
AUGUST 20
Asarco and Cyprus Amax disclose and dismiss Phelps Dodge's bids. Phelps Dodge immediately sweetens the bids.
 
AUGUST 26
Asarco and Cyprus Amax sweeten their own merger terms with a $5-a-share payout.
 
SEPTEMBER 2
Phelps Dodge launches its hostile offers.
 
SEPTEMBER 22
Phelps raises its offers again.
 
SEPTEMBER 24
A meeting at Trump International Hotel between the chief executives of Asarco, Cyprus Amax and Phelps Dodge fails to reach an agreement. An adviser for Asarco approaches Grupo Mexico, which offers to buy Asarco for $1.03 billion.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (83%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (83%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (71%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (71%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: PHELPS DODGE CORP; ASARCO INC; CYPRUS AMAX MINERALS CO; GRUPO MEXICO CYPRUS AMAX MINERALS CO (83%); ASARCO INC (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHELPS DODGE CORP; ASARCO INC; CYPRUS AMAX MINERALS CO; GRUPO MEXICO

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (91%); UNITED STATES (88%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (54%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INDUSTRY PROFILES; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING COPPER INDUSTRY (92%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MINES & MINING (89%); COPPER MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); MERGERS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); COPPER MINING (73%); AUCTIONS (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (60%); 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M; MCALLISTER, FRANCIS R; WARD, MILTON MILTON H WARD (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



665 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Crude Oil Up Again, Briefly Trading Over $25 a Barrel

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The price of crude oil rose more than 1 percent yesterday, briefly trading above $25 a barrel for the first time in two and a half years, after a report of declining inventories signaled that the oil surpluses of early this year are gone.
United States crude oil supplies fell 1.1 percent, to the lowest level since January 1998, the American Petroleum Institute said. 
 Inventories have declined every week but two since mid-June, as exporters reduced production by about 7 percent. Prices have virtually doubled during the year.
"The U.S. is very lean on crude oil," said Marianne Kah, chief oil economist at Conoco Inc., the nation's fifth-biggest petroleum company. "It's the first time since 1996 that we've been very tight. When inventories get low, prices get high."
Crude oil for November delivery rose 36 cents, or 1.5 percent, to close at $24.69 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. During the trading session, the price was up as much as 79 cents, to $25.12 a barrel, the highest since January 1997.
Oil company stocks followed crude oil prices higher. Shares of Texaco Inc. rose $1, to $62.3125, and the Phillips Petroleum Company rose $1.75, to $48.50.
"Oil's been stronger than I could have possibly imagined," said Charles Davidson, chairman of Wexford Management L.L.C. in Greenwich, Conn., a private investment fund. Mr. Davidson said that his fund had purchased the stocks and commercial paper of several energy companies during the spring, including the Range Resources Corporation, an independent oil company based in Fort Worth, which has nearly doubled in price since April.
Mr. Davidson said he thought that energy stocks could rise further, adding, "We've no plans to sell."
The American Petroleum Institute said after the end of trading yesterday that prices would continue to rise because oil inventories in the United States fell to 305.1 million barrels last week. Inventories have averaged 319 million barrels over the last five years.
Supplies have fallen 11 percent from their high for the year in April.
"We are fundamentally short of oil," said Alan Struth, an economist at Honeywell Bonner & Moore, a Houston-based refinery consulting firm. "If production stays around where it is, we could see $30 by the end of the year."
Gasoline inventories fell to 201.1 million barrels last week, the lowest level since October 1998 and down 9.3 percent from the year's high in March.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Black Gold" plots the price of oil, from January through September. (Source: Datastream)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (93%); CVX (NYSE) (68%); RRC (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (93%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE CONOCOPHILLIPS (93%); CHEVRON CORP (68%); RANGE RESOURCES CORP (66%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (83%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (83%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (83%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRODUCTION OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GASOLINE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FUTURES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); 

PERSON: CHARLES T DAVIDSON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



666 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY: PREVIEW '99-'00;
Overtime Is Now Five Minutes in Hockey Heaven

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE 

 BODY:
Shortly before the 28 teams opened their training camps, the National Hockey League executive Steve Solomon attended the revival of "Death of a Salesman" on Broadway. Solomon, second in command to Commissioner Gary Bettman, spied a hockey-friendly journalist at intermission and went into sell mode. The topic was the N.H.L.'s new four-on-four overtime.
"The most exciting five minutes in sports!" Solomon said. "It will be great." 
 It may be, but Solomon won't be around to hype it. A couple weeks later, he announced his resignation, effective tomorrow, the opening night of the N.H.L. season. Solomon is going to Univision, the Spanish television network, where he will head the sports division.
While Bettman seeks Solomon's replacement, the league skates on, with the Dallas Stars defending their first Stanley Cup and the 2000 playoffs set to end next June. Along with the new overtime concept, the N.H.L. has partly changed its video-review policy. No longer will television tape nullify apparently good goals because an attacking player had a skate in the goalie's crease. The decision regarding goalie interference will be made only by the referees, the way it used to be. And there will be two referees for 50 of each team's 82 regular-season games, up from 20 last season.
There will be a new team in Atlanta, in a new arena, with plenty of tickets sold for the Thrashers. The Carolina Hurricanes have a new arena in Raleigh, N.C., where tickets are not selling as well. The Los Angeles Kings have a new building, too, and so does the Colorado Avalanche. Locally, the Rangers signed six free agents and the Devils stood pat. The Islanders are still in their old building, with the same ownership considering a sale as the payroll shrinks, the season-ticket base dwindles and local television exposure remains uncertain. As for national TV, Fox is gone with all its incomprehensible camera angles and ABC is in with fewer regular-season games than Fox and camera work still to be determined. More games will be seen on ESPN and ESPN2, the cable partners of ABC and all under the Disney umbrella.
When the puck drops tomorrow, with the Rangers at Edmonton, it will be the first season in two decades without Wayne Gretzky, who began in 1979 with the Oilers and finished in 1999 with the Rangers. Gretzky and his No. 99 jersey will be honored in pregame ceremonies tomorrow night and he will enter the Hall of Fame in November. And this season could be the last for Hall-bound Dominik Hasek of Buffalo, who said he plans to retire. Hasek has won the Vezina trophy for the past three seasons as the league's best goalie. But Bettman emphasized that the returning younger stars include Paul Kariya of Anaheim, Jaromir Jagr of Pittsburgh and Eric Lindros of Philadelphia.
"The beauty of sports in all ages is that there is always another generation," Bettman said. As for rules changes, Bettman said, "The feedback we've gotten has been overwhelmingly positive" for the new overtime format. Under it, teams tied after 60 minutes will each get 1 point in the standing, as they always have for ties. The five-minute, sudden-death overtime will be played, however, with four skaters apiece, instead of five. If a team scores to win in overtime, it gets a second point in the standing for a victory while the losing team keeps its point for the tie in regulation.
Detroit's Scotty Bowman, the dean of N.H.L. coaches, said he is not sure how this will affect strategy.
"There's a lot of things you put in your mind," Bowman said. "What the standings are. Your opponent. How you're playing in the game. I'm not that sure of the 3-point game. It will cause a lot of parity. If you tied every game, you'd have 82 points, going for another 82. You might see some real offense for five minutes."
This should highlight players like Brian Leetch, the Ranger captain, who is a skilled attacker from his defensive position.
"I like the rule, it's exciting," Leetch said. "Teams will put skill players out there. It will help the league." Mike Richter, the Ranger goalie, said that eliminating video review for crease violations will lead to more collisions between attackers and goalies.
Off the ice, there are serious issues. With the collective bargaining agreement in place until 2004, some teams are resisting the wage inflation that has raised the average salary to almost $1.3 million. Among the stars in contract squabbles are: Aleksei Yashin of Ottawa, Keith Primeau of Carolina, Bill Guerin of Edmonton, Byron Dafoe of Boston and Darren McCarty of Detroit.
Free agents still seeking teams include Ulf Samuelsson, Pat Verbeek, Dmitri Khristich and Joe Murphy. Among old faces in new places: Theo Fleury from Calgary to Colorado to the Rangers; Zigmund Palffy from the Islanders to Los Angeles; Niklas Sundstrom from the Rangers to San Jose, via Tampa Bay, Grant Fuhr from St. Louis to Calgary. Kevin Lowe, the former Ranger and Oiler, is coaching Edmonton. Mario Lemieux, the former Pittsburgh star, now heads an ownership group that bought the Penguins out of bankruptcy.
Overall, the N.H.L. has not commanded the higher profile that seemed its destiny five years ago. After Bettman's first full season, 1993-94, the Rangers had won the Stanley Cup and Solomon was helping to negotiate big national television deals. Rap artists wore team jerseys and hockey seemed hip. The cute, new, successful expansion team was the Anaheim Mighty Ducks, founded by the Disney Company, an encouraging straw in the wind.
With baseball on strike that autumn, hockey had a wider space on the big sports stage. And then Bettman, negotiating a collective bargaining agreement, ordered a labor lockout that lasted 15 weeks. Perhaps it was only coincidental, but hockey's momentum seemed to slow.
Bettman, as sensitive to criticism as he is dedicated to his mission, is quick to counter perceptions that hockey has not attained its expected share of the American sports audience.
"There is tremendous fragmentation out there," Bettman said, referring to the sports marketplace, especially its television component. "The competition, in terms of distribution, is fiercer than ever before. On a regional basis, we continue to do great. We have a strong fan base. Our attendance has never been stronger. We're in more places than ever before. Go back to 1990. We were in 11 U.S. markets. For next season, we will be in 21. All of these things will take time. We've been heading in the right direction. It's a long road. We think we're on the right track."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Buffalo's Dominik Hasek says that he plans to retire after this season. (Associated Press)
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (69%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (74%); TEXAS, USA (71%); COLORADO, USA (53%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (74%); DENVER, CO, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE DALLAS STARS LP (69%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); DALLAS STARS (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); ATLANTA THRASHERS (54%); ATLANTA THRASHERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); DALLAS STARS (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); ATLANTA THRASHERS (54%); ATLANTA THRASHERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); GEORGIA, USA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (74%); TEXAS, USA (71%); COLORADO, USA (53%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (74%); DENVER, CO, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (74%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); TICKET SALES (69%); 

PERSON: LAPOINTE, JOE STEVE SOLOMON (84%); GARY BETTMAN (77%); DOMINIK HASEK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



667 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Billionaire, Once Refugee, Donates Millions to Museum

BYLINE: By IRVIN MOLOTSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29

 BODY:
A refugee from the 1956 Hungarian uprising who came penniless to the United States will give the Smithsonian Institution $60 million, its largest donation ever, the Smithsonian said today.
The donor, Steven F. Udvar-Hazy, became a billionaire by leasing airliners, and his gift to the Smithsonian will be directed to a new museum that is to open in four years at Dulles International Airport and that will contain objects too big -- like the space shuttle and a 747 jetliner -- for the Smithsonian's National Air and Space Museum on the Mall. 
 In return for the gift, the Smithsonian is expected to name the Dulles museum for Mr. Udvar-Hazy (pronounced OOD-vahr HAH-zee), perhaps at the next meeting of its governing board of regents in January.
Besides the space shuttle and the 747, the Dulles museum will also house the Enola Gay, the B-29 that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima in 1945; an SR-71, once a secret spy plane, and a B-17, another World War II bomber.
Mr. Udvar-Hazy was traveling in Asia today and not available for comment, but the chairman of his leasing company, Leslie Gonda, described how Mr. Udvar-Hazy's knack for aviation had brought him a fortune.
"Even when he was an undergraduate at U.C.L.A., he gave classes to graduate students in airline management and administration," Mr. Gonda said.
It was at the University of California at Los Angeles that Mr. Udvar-Hazy learned that he could make money by buying an airplane from one company and selling it or leasing it to another.
In a 1990 interview with The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Udvar-Hazy said he learned in 1967 that Air New Zealand was trying to sell an Lockheed Electra and told the airline that he would sell it for a 5 percent commission. Air New Zealand agreed and Mr. Udvar-Hazy sold the airplane and made a $50,000 commission.
He was then 21 years old and he said that he carried on the deal via Telex because, he said, "I was afraid if someone saw me, they'd be disappointed in how young I was."
Mr. Udvar-Hazy is now 53 and earlier this year The Los Angeles Business Journal estimated his fortune at $1.6 billion.
In 1990, Mr. Udvar-Hazy, Mr. Gonda and Mr. Gonda's son, Louis, sold their company, the International Lease Finance Corporation, to American International Group, the insurance company, for $1.3 billion in cash and stock.
Mr. Udvar-Hazy and the elder Mr. Gonda stayed on to run the company for the new owners.
Mr. Gonda is also a Hungarian refugee, now 80, who lost much of his family in the Holocaust and arrived to the United States in 1963 after going to Venezuela in 1945.
He said Mr. Udvar-Hazy and his brother, Andre, were taken by their parents, Ernest and Ethel, to Sweden when the Soviet Union put down the Hungarian uprising in 1956.
The family then moved to New York City, where Mr. Udvar-Hazy attended Stuyvesant High School and then to California. Mr. Udvar-Hazy lives with his wife, Christine, their four children and his mother (his father has since died) in Beverly Hills, Calif.
Morten S. Beyer, chairman of MBA, an aviation consulting firm, said the company Mr. Udvar-Hazy founded is one of the largest owners of Boeing and Airbus planes, although it has no 747's like the one that will be installed at Dulles.
"He doesn't like the economics for the lessor," Mr. Beyer said of Mr. Udvar-Hazy's aversion to the 747.
After word of the donation got out, the secretary of the Smithsonian, I. Michael Heyman, noted that it was the latest in a series of "exemplary gifts to the institution."
The most recent was the bequest by Dr. Paul Singer of his huge collection of ancient Chinese artifacts to the Smithsonian's Arthur M. Sackler Gallery announced on Sept. 8. The collection has been valued at $50 million to $60 million.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Udvar-Hazy is giving $60 million to the Smithsonian. (Agence France-Presse)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (61%); 8685 (TSE) (61%); AIZ (ASX) (55%); AIR (NZX) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (61%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (70%); JAPAN (56%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (56%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION; NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM (WASHINGTON, DC) AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (61%); INTERNATIONAL LEASE FINANCE CORP (61%); AIR NEW ZEALAND LTD (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (91%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (91%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (83%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION; NATIONAL AIR AND SPACE MUSEUM (WASHINGTON, DC) SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (91%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (91%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (83%); NATIONAL AIR & SPACE MUSEUM (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNGARY; UNITED STATES (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (70%); JAPAN (56%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (56%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; DULLES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (WASHINGTON, DC) MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); REFUGEES (92%); AIRPORTS (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); LEASING INDUSTRY (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); HOLOCAUST (73%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (70%); ESPIONAGE (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); 

PERSON: MOLOTSKY, IRVIN; UDVAR-HAZY, STEVEN F LESLIE GONDA (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



668 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Silent As a Toyota Hits Market

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 29

 BODY:
Despite the soaring value of the yen, the Toyota Motor Corporation introduced a subcompact car today that will be imported from Japan and will be priced well below comparable models made by Detroit auto makers.
Not long ago, such a move would probably have outraged American auto executives, prompting them to call for Federal investigations into whether Japanese cars were being dumped on the United States market. But there was silence today from the industry in Detroit, which has become increasingly global. 
 The new subcompact, the Echo, starts at just $9,995, the first Toyota in five years to be priced for less than $10,000 in the United States. The Echo costs thousands less than competitors including the Ford Escort ($11,760), Dodge Neon ($12,460) and even Ford's newest small-car offering, the Focus ($11,865).
Still, Toyota executives say that selling the car at that price is profitable for the company and that the low price comes from engineering advances.
"If anything, the low price was prompted by the last surge in the yen's value," said Donald V. Esmond, group vice president and general manager for Toyota's United States arm. "It probably was due to the yen four years ago, when the yen was so strong and our cars were so high priced."
The yen briefly peaked at 79.85 to the dollar in April 1995 before retreating beyond 100. The yen closed today at 106.98 to the dollar, after climbing more than 15 percent over the last 10 weeks.
The yen rally, which tends to make all imports more expensive, has been powered by Japan's apparent emergence from its longest recession since World War II.
Hiroshi Okuda, the chairman of Toyota, said in a telephone interview today that the globalization of the auto industry had made trade frictions less severe between the United States and Japan. "That is how we in private business, as well as in the Government, see it," Mr. Okuda said.
Of course it is harder now for American executives to call for people to "buy American." The Chrysler Corporation, whose former chairman, Lee Iacocca, prominently accused Japan of dumping cars in the United States, was acquired by a German company and is now DaimlerChrysler A.G. In addition, many other auto makers with headquarters in foreign countries are building huge numbers of cars and trucks in the United States.
In the 1999 model year, Toyota built in North America 74 percent of its cars and trucks sold here, Honda built 82 percent and Nissan built 58 percent. BMW, Mitsubishi, Mazda and Subaru also build cars in the United States. Likewise, the General Motors Corporation and the Ford Motor Company sell cars around the world and own auto makers in other countries. Ford even owns 33.4 percent of Mazda.
Starting today, investors can buy Toyota's American depository receipts under the symbol TM on the New York Stock Exchange. Toyota shares also began trading today on the London Stock Exchange. Mr. Okuda even rang the New York Stock Exchange's opening bell today.
The current surge in the yen offers the first real potential for trade issues to roil the waters in the auto industry since Daimler-Benz bought Chrysler last November.
To be sure, G.M., Ford and DaimlerChrysler still employ their longtime lobbyist, Stephen J. Collins, as president of the Automotive Trade Policy Council. He continues to warn about threats from Japanese competition and said today, "There's a sense of renewed aggressivity of Japan in the U.S. market."
He noted the widening trade deficit with Japan but acknowledged that part of the increase was coming from cars imported to help quench an unexpectedly strong American auto market -- one that United States auto makers are also struggling to supply. Though such comments used to be backed up with pronouncements by chief executives in Detroit, that is no longer the case. DaimlerChrysler, Ford and G.M. officials declined to comment today on the yen or Toyota's pricing.
Mr. Okuda said Toyota had set a goal of capturing 10 percent of the American market -- compared with 8.6 percent in the first eight months of this year -- but had set no timetable. "The rise in the value of the yen will not affect our future activities here," he added. "It will not affect how soon we attain that goal."
Toyota also plans to increase its share of the European market to 5 percent from 3 percent by 2005. Worldwide, Toyota sells about 9 percent of cars and trucks.
Mr. Okuda said the yen's effect on Toyota's American operations would continue to shrink as more of the company's vehicles are assembled in the United States. But the Echo, a subcompact with expansive headroom and crisp handling, will be imported from Japan.
Toyota expects to sell at least 50,000 of the 2000 model year Echos in the United States.
Engineers shaved about $2,600 off the price of the Toyota Tercel, the car the Echo replaced. Michael J. O'Brien, a Toyota executive, said engineers designed the Echo with fewer separate components and with parts that were easier to assemble. For example, they saved $12 a car by redesigning the air-conditioning unit in one piece instead of three. And they saved $30 to $35 a car by bolting the power-steering pump, alternator and air-conditioning compressor directly to the Echo's engine block.
"Those changes added up," he said. "Anytime there's a part, there's handling requirements, and that all adds up to money."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Toyota Echo, a subcompact, costs much less than competitors like Ford's Escort and Focus and the Dodge Neon. Toyota expects to sell at least 50,000 of the 2000 model year Echos in the United States. (Peter Yates for The New York Times)(pg. C25)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (96%); TM (NYSE) (96%); 7203 (TSE) (96%); FORDP (PAR) (86%); F (NYSE) (86%); DAI (FRA) (62%); DAI (BIT) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (96%); FORD MOTOR CO (86%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); DAIMLER AG (62%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (62%); ACQUISITIONS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN HIROSHI OKUDA (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



669 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Canada Is Taking a Tougher Line With Illegal Chinese Migrants

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: PORT HARDY, British Columbia

 BODY:
When the Canadian Navy made a group of undocumented Chinese migrants get off a ship here recently, one local man brought his dogs to the dock and encouraged them to bark at the men and women wrapped in blankets against the cold.
For Canadian officials, the confrontation represented one victory in what they say is a rapidly growing effort to smuggle in illegal immigrants. This summer alone, they confiscated four trawlers and detained 560 undocumented Chinese citizens who wanted to make Canada their home. 
 Western Canada is only one destination in a pan-Pacific surge this year in illegal Chinese migrants. In the last 16 months, United States Coast Guard ships have intercepted 20 ships carrying undocumented Chinese in American territorial waters around Guam. In the last six months, Australia has intercepted 21 boatloads of illegal migrants, primarily Chinese.
"We're now experiencing the largest smuggling operation ever experienced in Canada," Rob Johnston, manager of immigration enforcement here, told reporters recently.
Steven Weeks, an Australian diplomat in Ottawa, said of Canada's sudden concern: "It's deja vu. The element of the public debate and concern is very similar to Australia."
As Australia, Canada and the United States increasingly share intelligence about vessels believed to be carrying migrants from southeastern China, Canada has started to take the harder line traditional in the other two countries.
After the first Chinese ship was intercepted, on July 20, the authorities in Vancouver released 74 immigrants, pending resolution of their petitions for refugee status. Within a month, 51 had disappeared, presumably for the United States.
Since then Canada has adopted a policy of detaining all undocumented passengers on vessels from China. Sentiment for immediately deporting them is markedly higher in western Canada than on the Atlantic seaboard, opinion polls indicate.
Vancouver's population is 20 percent ethnic Chinese, and many of these Chinese-Canadians fear that each new boatload batters a carefully constructed racial tolerance.
Bill Vander Zalm, a former provincial premier, has jumped back into politics, starting his campaign for Parliament by saying that the federal Government would pay attention to the immigration issue only if all the illegal Chinese immigrants detained in the region were shipped to Ottawa. "I am sure you would get some action then," he said.
Canadian newspapers portray the boatloads of migrants, largely from Fujian Province, as job-seekers rather than freedom-seekers. Not long ago, Elinor Caplan, Canada's new Immigration Minister, toured a Vancouver Island navy base where 225 immigrants are detained and said at a packed news conference: "We are intercepting, boarding and apprehending those ships. We are then using greater powers of detention to insure people on the boat do not flee. The system is working."
Canadian officials are also asking Chinese authorities to help.
At the recent Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting in New Zealand, Canada's Prime Minister, Jean Chretien, discussed the migration problem with President Jiang Zemin of China. "I told him we needed collaboration because they could hopefully stop the departure of the ships from the coast of China that are coming to our coast," Mr. Chretien said later. "He recognized that, and said he was willing to collaborate with us." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (71%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); CHINA (95%); AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GUAM (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (92%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (71%); US COAST GUARD (57%); US COAST GUARD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US COAST GUARD (57%); US COAST GUARD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA; CHINA; CANADA (99%); CHINA (95%); AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GUAM (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS IMMIGRATION (92%); SMUGGLING (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); NAVIES (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); DOGS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DEPORTATION (76%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES JEAN CHRETIEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



670 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Now Found in Bell Atlantic's Corner: New York Regulators

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
At about 8:30 yesterday morning, workers dispatched by the Bell Atlantic Corporation, the nation's biggest local telephone company, began unloading 30 boxes of documents from trucks outside the Washington offices of the Federal Communications Commission.
The boxes contained three copies of Bell Atlantic's application to sell long-distance communications services to consumers and businesses in New York State. If the petition is granted, Bell Atlantic will become the first regional Bell admitted to the $80 billion long-distance market. 
 But for all its physical heft, Bell Atlantic's application was matched in significance by a statement of merely four sentences issued a few hours later by Maureen O. Helmer, chairwoman of the New York Public Service Commission. The commission, which is highly regarded at the F.C.C., has been jawboning Bell Atlantic to open its local network for years.
All but formally endorsing Bell Atlantic's long-distance aspirations, Ms. Helmer insured that Bell Atlantic's rivals, which will try to persuade the F.C.C. to reject the application, have a difficult task.
"I am pleased that Bell Atlantic's progress in meeting the terms of the 271 checklist has reached the point of a filing with the F.C.C.," her statement read, referring to the section of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 that details the steps a Bell company must take before entering the long-distance market. "The cooperation of all the parties during the course of this review has facilitated a tremendous amount of progress by the company in opening its local market to competition. If the filing is consistent with the terms and conditions that we have established, and the record we have developed over the past two and a half years, I am optimistic that I could offer my support."
Ms. Helmer was under no obligation to share her optimism yesterday; the state commission will not make formal comments to the F.C.C. for about three weeks.
In the days and weeks leading up to Bell Atlantic's application yesterday, many communications experts said that the F.C.C. was likely to follow the guidance of the New York regulators -- or at least give New York's recommendation far more weight than it had lent to earlier long-distance endorsements for other regional Bells from regulators in other states. Applications in some states -- including Louisiana, South Carolina and Oklahoma -- were rejected, with people close to the F.C.C. saying that the commission had not been convinced of the rigor and independence of the regulators in those states.
By contrast, William E. Kennard, the F.C.C.'s chairman, was positively glowing yesterday in his praise of the New York commission.
"I applaud the New York Public Service Commission for its work on Bell Atlantic's application to enter the long-distance market," he said in a statement. "The dedication and expertise displayed by New York's Public Service Commission and its staff are truly impressive."
Mr. Kennard's regard for the New York regulators may be enhanced by the fact that his chief of staff, Kathryn C. Brown, spent three years as director of the New York commission's consumer services division.
So at this point the tea leaves indicate that the application will be approved. That still does not necessarily mean Bell Atlantic is set to define the One True Path for other Bells to reach their long-distance nirvana.
In Texas, SBC Communications Inc. is scheduled to receive results of a test of the openness of its network on Friday, with the next meeting of the state's regulatory commission to discuss SBC's long-distance plans set for Oct. 21. If SBC is lucky -- and good -- it will be able to apply to the F.C.C. for permission in Texas soon afterward.
But the way SBC has opened its network in Texas is in some technical aspects quite different from Bell Atlantic's model. Because of the high concentration of lucrative business customers in New York, especially in Manhattan, many competitive local phone companies in New York City have found it economical to assemble relatively extensive networks of their own and to buy access to Bell Atlantic's systems piecemeal. In working with the state's regulators, Bell Atlantic has spent a lot of time and effort developing the capacity to sell access to many discrete parts of its network.
Competitive local carriers in Texas, on the other hand, appear to have more appetite for bigger chunks of SBC's network, perhaps putting more focus on less lucrative residential customers because the Texas business market is not quite as attractive as that of New York.
"SBC is following a different model and also has a pretty good chance of getting in on a slightly later time track," said Reed E. Hundt, the former F.C.C. chairman who is now a consultant for McKinsey & Company.
"What's interesting is whether or not both of them are accepted," he said. "If they are, the country will see two different models, and different states will go with different models."
To many telecommunications analysts and executives, Bell Atlantic's model seems to require more work on the part of the incumbent. That is why executives at other regional Bells have been heard to complain that Bell Atlantic has been too conciliatory, perhaps setting a bar too high for the other Bell companies to hurdle easily.
Bell Atlantic has every reason to be more conciliatory because it has already lost so much corporate business in big metropolitan markets to upstarts. It is not a new pattern. In 1990, for instance, Nynex -- later acquired by Bell Atlantic -- became the first Bell to set aside space within its switching centers for competitors to place their own equipment. The other Bells howled that Nynex was making them look bad.
"Some people would say that's being conciliatory," Ivan G. Seidenberg, who was chairman of Nynex before becoming chairman of Bell Atlantic, said yesterday. "I would say we're the first company that faces competition in the industry every time. And I can go ahead and say we have been right every time because everybody has followed suit sooner or later, though they tend to do it kicking and scratching because it's convenient to say, 'New York made us do it.'
"If we have to trade some things to get access to larger markets, I think that's the right trade-off," Mr. Seidenberg added. "While I could get excited about the word conciliatory, I might want to replace that with savvy and strategic."

 
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (93%); VZ (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: BELL ATLANTIC CORP; PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (93%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELL ATLANTIC CORP; PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (93%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PETITIONS (71%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH; HELMER, MAUREEN O CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); MAUREEN O HELMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



671 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Fannie Mae Eases Credit To Aid MortgageLending

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29

 BODY:
In a move that could help increase home ownership rates among minorities and low-income consumers, the Fannie Mae Corporation is easing the credit requirements on loans that it will purchase from banks and other lenders.
The action, which will begin as a pilot program involving 24 banks in 15 markets -- including the New York metropolitan region -- will encourage those banks to extend home mortgages to individuals whose credit is generally not good enough to qualify for conventional loans. Fannie Mae officials say they hope to make it a nationwide program by next spring. 
 Fannie Mae, the nation's biggest underwriter of home mortgages, has been under increasing pressure from the Clinton Administration to expand mortgage loans among low and moderate income people and felt pressure from stock holders to maintain its phenomenal growth in profits.
In addition, banks, thrift institutions and mortgage companies have been pressing Fannie Mae to help them make more loans to so-called subprime borrowers. These borrowers whose incomes, credit ratings and savings are not good enough to qualify for conventional loans, can only get loans from finance companies that charge much higher interest rates -- anywhere from three to four percentage points higher than conventional loans.
"Fannie Mae has expanded home ownership for millions of families in the 1990's by reducing down payment requirements," said Franklin D. Raines, Fannie Mae's chairman and chief executive officer. "Yet there remain too many borrowers whose credit is just a notch below what our underwriting has required who have been relegated to paying significantly higher mortgage rates in the so-called subprime market."
Demographic information on these borrowers is sketchy. But at least one study indicates that 18 percent of the loans in the subprime market went to black borrowers, compared to 5 per cent of loans in the conventional loan market.
In moving, even tentatively, into this new area of lending, Fannie Mae is taking on significantly more risk, which may not pose any difficulties during flush economic times. But the government-subsidized corporation may run into trouble in an economic downturn, prompting a government rescue similar to that of the savings and loan industry in the 1980's.
"From the perspective of many people, including me, this is another thrift industry growing up around us," said Peter Wallison a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. "If they fail, the government will have to step up and bail them out the way it stepped up and bailed out the thrift industry."
Under Fannie Mae's pilot program, consumers who qualify can secure a mortgage with an interest rate one percentage point above that of a conventional, 30-year fixed rate mortgage of less than $240,000 -- a rate that currently averages about 7.76 per cent. If the borrower makes his or her monthly payments on time for two years, the one percentage point premium is dropped.
Fannie Mae, the nation's biggest underwriter of home mortgages, does not lend money directly to consumers. Instead, it purchases loans that banks make on what is called the secondary market. By expanding the type of loans that it will buy, Fannie Mae is hoping to spur banks to make more loans to people with less-than-stellar credit ratings.
Fannie Mae officials stress that the new mortgages will be extended to all potential borrowers who can qualify for a mortgage. But they add that the move is intended in part to increase the number of minority and low income home owners who tend to have worse credit ratings than non-Hispanic whites.
Home ownership has, in fact, exploded among minorities during the economic boom of the 1990's. The number of mortgages extended to Hispanic applicants jumped by 87.2 per cent from 1993 to 1998, according to Harvard University's Joint Center for Housing Studies. During that same period the number of African Americans who got mortgages to buy a home increased by 71.9 per cent and the number of Asian Americans by 46.3 per cent.
In contrast, the number of non-Hispanic whites who received loans for homes increased by 31.2 per cent.
Despite these gains, home ownership rates for minorities continue to lag behind non-Hispanic whites, in part because blacks and Hispanics in particular tend to have on average worse credit ratings.
In July, the Department of Housing and Urban Development proposed that by the year 2001, 50 percent of Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's portfolio be made up of loans to low and moderate-income borrowers. Last year, 44 percent of the loans Fannie Mae purchased were from these groups.
The change in policy also comes at the same time that HUD is investigating allegations of racial discrimination in the automated underwriting systems used by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to determine the credit-worthiness of credit applicants.

 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; MINORITIES (US); BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A FRANK RAINES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



672 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: Amazon.com Plans A Transformation To Internet Bazaar

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
Amazon.com announced yesterday that it would transform itself into an Internet shopping bazaar, opening its popular Web site to merchants large and small for a minimal fee. In return, the selling powerhouse, which started as an on-line bookstore, will gather huge amounts of information on the buying habits of consumers.
The initiative, called zShops, begins today with 500,000 new products -- about four times the offerings of the average Kmart -- the company said. Whether Amazon customers are really looking to buy everything from jam made by Trappist monks to white-water rescue equipment is yet to be proved. 
 But consumer sales over the Internet will jump to $108 billion by 2003 from $3.9 billion last year, according to Forrester Research, and most major merchants are trying to develop a selling strategy to master the emerging marketplace.
Amazon, which is losing money although it is one of the most-visited sites on the Web, expects to help these companies and to expand well beyond books, CD's, electronics and toys. For Amazon, one big benefit is a steady stream of cash without the costs associated with a warehouse of products. Merchants will pay $9.99 a month to be listed on the site and will distribute their own goods. If they choose to have Amazon process their credit card purchases, they will pay an additional 4.75 percent of the total sale.
To become the Web shopping destination of choice, Amazon will probably need to persuade at least some big retailers to participate, thus giving up a portion of Internet sales and relinquishing data on customers -- something they may be loath to do.
Despite the obstacles, Wall Street applauded the move, the biggest in a series by the retailer to evolve from a Web bookstore into a full-fledged shopping portal, by sending Amazon's stock up 23 percent, to $80.75. "Consumers win, retailers win and Amazon wins big time," said Chris Vroom, an E-commerce stock analyst with Thomas Weisel Partners.
Jeff Bezos, Amazon's founder and chief executive, said he wanted to give his customers what they wanted most: endless choice. "Sixteen months ago, we were a place we could come to find books," he said. "Tomorrow, we will be a place to find anything, with a capital A."
Amazon will be experimenting with a type of business now dominated by other Internet giants. On one hand, its move to become an unlimited shopping mall is an attempt to compete with Internet portals like American Online and Yahoo, which offer links with millions of Web sites and have substantially more monthly traffic. The changes also provide an opportunity to take away some of the small-business revenue flooding into auction sites like Ebay and Microsoft, Excite@Home and Lycos, which agreed to share their auction listings earlier this month.
Most any willing merchant will be able to work with Amazon and have indirect access to it 12 million customers, but Amazon will exclude merchants its deems "offensive," including sellers of guns, hard-core pornography and hate literature.
In an important difference from real-world and Internet malls, however, zShops will be essentially organized by product and product category -- fishing rods and sporting goods, for example, -- not by stores. Only after a customer has picked a particular item from a list, say, an Orvis fly rod for $150, would he be sent to a page controlled by the merchant that would include a picture and description of the item.
To make the offer more enticing, Amazon is giving merchants a chance to use several of the marketing tools it has refined. Through what it calls relationship marketing, a small seller of Indian spices could have a link to its Web site pop up every time a customer calls up a book by Salman Rushdie, author of "The Satanic Verses," or a compact disk by the sitarist Ravi Shankar. This service will be offered free until Christmas.
In addition, for a percentage of the sale, Amazon will let any merchant offer one-click shopping. That allows customers to click on the shipping address and credit information stored in the Amazon data bank to make a purchase through another merchant. Amazon charges the card and then deposits the money directly into the seller account. The seller is responsible for shipping and product quality.
The company declined to say how many stores were participating in the experiment, but the arrangement will be less appealing to larger business. Matt Hyde, vice president of on-line sales for the sporting goods retailer REI.com, said that he had turned down the opportunity because he aims to control the quality of the shopping experience for his customers. "Amazon commoditizes the product," he said.
"We would consider it," said Anna Schryver, a spokeswoman for clothing retailer Lands' End, "However, we believe the greatest place for our customer is our Web site because of the service component."
This strategy is not without risks, the most pressing of which is quality control. Amazon now has a brand name that is widely recognized for trustworthiness. Since the retailer will only do minimal screening of its prospective partners, it could easily find itself processing orders for inefficient or dishonest merchants.
Amazon is counting on self-policing by consumer ratings to eliminate most fraud. "If you are selling on line, your digital reputation is all you have," said Jaleh Bisharat, Amazon's vice president for marketing. "They have a tremendous incentive to deliver high-quality goods."
In addition, Amazon has said it will guarantee merchandise that never arrives or differs materially from how it was described up to $1,000 if it handles the credit card payment and up to $250 if it does not.
Still analysts see a downside that could be substantial. If a Tiffany lamp ordered through zShops turns out to be a fake, will the customer still blame Amazon? "Yep," said Alan Braverman, head of Internet Research at Bank of America.
But the risk to Amazon could be well worth it if it becomes the pre-eminent vault of information for Internet shopping habits. In theory, Amazon could gather information on products that were most popular with its customers.
"One of the reasons behind adding these shops will be to help them determine what products their customers are interested in so they can offer it themselves," said Mike May, a digital commerce analyst with Jupiter Communications, an Internet research firm. "If a specific product category, say sweaters, gets hot, they have a lot of incentive to sell direct to consumers."
Even if Amazon does not eventually choose to expand into new products, it still has a lot to gain by learning more about consumer shopping habits. "The data could become the most valuable asset," predicted Mr. Braverman. He hypothesizes about a future in which manufacturers like Procter & Gamble, for example, would pay Amazon to test-market new products.
To get an idea of how such an arrangement could benefit Amazon, one need look no farther than when Charles Schwab & Company started its Mutual Fund Marketplace. The financial services giant offered to customers the ability to go to one spot to buy mutual funds from dozens of companies. Schwab took no inventory from the companies and had no responsibility for managing the money, but it did collect fees on the transactions. Schwab also kept the most valuable part of the transaction for itself: information on customers' investing habits.
The fund companies do not know who their customers are, they simply get the money. As a result, the fund companies cannot communicate directly with the investors who buy through Schwab, so have no hope of repeat sales or targeted marketing.
Schwab, on the other hand, has used this method to establish a base of customers about whom it knows habits, preferences, investment ability and more. As it has expanded its business, it has started to pick off these customers from the companies whose funds it also sells. Schwab has been the most successful company in its industry in recent years.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amazon.com's zShops venture will open Amazon's Web sites to give consumers choices from a variety of merchants. Its founder and chief executive, Jeff Bezos, introduced the program in New York yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. C25)
 
Chart/Graph: "Reaching for More"
Amazon.com, one of the most popular Internet companies that is not yet a portal, plans to expand its business beyond selling books and music. Under the plan, Amazon would open its Web sites to any merchant for a monthly fee and, sometimes, a percentage of sales.
 
Number of visitors to each company's Web sites in August.
 
NO. OF VISITORS (millions)
AOL: 53.43
Yahoo: 40.24
Microsoft: 35.02
Lycos: 29.38
Go Network: 20.26
Excite@Home: 16.06
Amazon: 12.54
Time Warner: 11.75
Go2Net: 11.10
Altavista: 10.22
 
Projected sales on the Internet in 1999, by category.
 
TOTAL: $14.9 billion
Books: 8.7%
Music: 2.0%
Computer hardware and software: 36.2%
Apparel and footwear: 6.0%
Other: 18.9%
Travel: 28.2%
 
(Sources: Media Metrix; Jupiter Communications)(pg. C25)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (90%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (90%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC; FORRESTER RESEARCH INC AMAZON.COM INC (90%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%); THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS GROUP INC (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMAZON.COM INC; FORRESTER RESEARCH INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR INTERNET RETAILING (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BOOKSTORES (89%); WEB SITES (89%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (89%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); RETAIL SALES (79%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); RIVERS (75%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (71%); SEARCH ENGINES (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE; BEZOS, JEFFREY P JEFFREY P BEZOS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



673 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Plan Would Delay A Tax Credit for Workers

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 29

 BODY:
Desperate for money to finance their spending bills without raiding Social Security, Congressional Republicans devised a plan today relying almost entirely on delaying billions of dollars in Federal tax breaks for millions of working-class families.
The plan was immediately questioned by Democrats and some Republicans, who called it an accounting gimmick that could hurt people on the lower rungs of the economic ladder. Frank Salizzoni, the chief executive of H&R Block Inc., said it "could cause confusion and disrupt the personal lives of hard-working American families." 
 A chart detailing the plan, obtained from a senior House Republican leader, shows Congress on course to spend $7.6 billion in surplus contributions to Social Security to run the Government in the 2000 fiscal year, which begins on Friday.
But because under the new plan about $8 billion would not be spent in the 2000 fiscal year, the Republicans' calculations show $400 million in black ink, rather than a $7.6 billion dip into Social Security money.
But the figure could be higher. The Congressional Budget Office released new figures tonight estimating that Republicans were actually on course to spend $17.9 billion out of the Social Security surplus.
Nonetheless, Republican leaders, who have vowed daily, and fervently, that they will not spend the money, stood together today under a banner reading "Stop Robbing Social Security" and unveiled a new campaign of television commercials renewing their pledge.
The House Republicans' own calculations show that the only way they can avoid raiding Social Security is to distribute the politically popular earned-income tax credit in 12 monthly payments next year, rather than in a lump sum.
Because the fiscal year ends on Sept. 30, payments for October, November and December 2000 would be counted against the 2001 budget, said John Feehery, a spokesman for Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois.
So the plan saves no money, but instead uses an accounting device that allows three months of the tax-credit payments to be counted in the next year. Mr. Feehery said delaying the payments would hurt no one and help the Government "weed out waste, fraud and abuse" that he said was rampant in the earned-income tax credit program.
The 25-year-old tax credit was designed to be an incentive to keep people working and paying taxes. It was expanded by the Reagan and Clinton Administrations, and now, about 20 million Americans in households earning $10,200 to $30,580 are eligible for it. They received $28.5 billion last year.
The average family received $1,890 in a single annual payment, allowing some to pay off debts, make a down payment on a car or pay tuition. Under the Republican plan, that same family would receive, instead, a check for $157.50 a month, a sum better suited for buying groceries or paying utility bills.
Gene Sperling, director of the White House's National Economic Council, called the plan "a forced interest-free loan to the Government" from "people scraping to get by." The White House budget director, Jack Lew, called it "kind of Dickensian."
The Republican idea of using the tax credit to offset billions in spending was first floated two weeks ago, but not as the centerpiece of a plan to leave Social Security alone. Even then, it was received unenthusiastically by much of the Republican rank-and-file. Today some conservative Republicans said the plan still made them uncomfortable.
"I have real concerns," said Representative Mark Souder, an Indiana Republican, who called the plan "a gimmick."
"We're trying to move people from welfare to work," Mr. Souder said. "But a number of our proposals seem to hit people moving from dependency to independence. Regardless of how you look at it, it's a reduction in benefits for those people."
A senior Republican aide expressed confidence in the plan. "It can be passed and it will be passed," he said.
Democrats in Congress were skeptical. "Why don't they go after some corporate tax break instead of the poorest of the poor?" asked the House minority leader, Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri.
Representative David Obey of Wisconsin, the ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, said, "It boggles my mind that they would be that callous."
The Republicans' calculations directly conflict with the new figures released tonight by the Congressional Budget Office. The budget office's figures, requested by Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the ranking Democrat on the House Budget Committee, show Congress on course to spend $17.9 billion in Social Security money.
The differing figures can be explained by the fact that the Republicans have ordered the budget office to make billions of dollars in "directed scorekeeping" adjustments. That means they have told their numbers-crunchers not to count those billions, a process that Stan Collender, a Federal budget expert at Fleishman-Hillard, defines as "lying about the numbers."
The Republicans, Mr. Spratt said, "were not playing by the rules."
Calculations by the Republicans also assume that almost everything else in the increasingly chaotic Congressional spending process will turn up as they hope, which may be unlikely. Congress made no progress today in passing spending bills, leaving 8 of the 13 measures incomplete.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Republican Congressional leaders, who are considering adjusting tax credits for the working poor to keep the budget balanced, yesterday spoke of protecting the Social Security surplus. Speaker J. Dennis Hastert later spoke to reporters, as Representative Dick Armey, far right, looked on. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (72%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (72%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); TAXATION; TAX CREDITS TAX LAW (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM RONALD REAGAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



674 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: State Takes Over East Orange Finances After 2d Year of Debt

 BODY:
Prompted by back-to-back deficits in the city's last two budgets, New Jersey officials voted yesterday to seize control of the municipal finances of East Orange. The move is required by state law whenever a city's deficit exceeds 4 percent for two consecutive years.
East Orange is the only New Jersey city currently under such supervision. The last city under state financial control was Irvington, in 1996 and 1997. 
 But the step was welcomed by top officials in East Orange, one of five New Jersey cities -- with Jersey City, Paterson, Irvington and Camden -- that have already agreed to allow close state scrutiny of their finances in return for so-called distressed cities aid.
"I welcome the decision from the perspective that we need help," said Robert Bowser, the East Orange Mayor.
The state's move is not as drastic as its takeover of troubled school districts in Jersey City, Paterson and Newark, where local superintendents and entire boards of education were replaced by state appointees. Rather, the Mayor and City Council will remain in office under the supervision of the State Director of Local Government Services, Ulrich Steinberg, who will have authority over decisions on purchasing and other spending, awarding of contracts, negotiations with unions, tax collection, issuing of new debt and other finances.
"We're not replacing the Mayor and Council; we're hoping to work in cooperation with the Mayor and Council," said E. J. Miranda, a spokesman for Mr. Steinberg.
The city ended the 1999 fiscal year on June 30 with a deficit of $8.9 million in its budget of just over $100 million, largely because of a tax collection rate of 76.3 percent, far below the state average of about 90 percent, Mr. Miranda said. The city expects to lose an additional $5 million this year as a result of miscalculation in its two-year-old deal to provide water to several surrounding communities, Mayor Bowser said.
The Mayor and leaders of a majority faction on the 10-member City Council have cast some of the blame for the city's financial woes on one another. The Mayor said the Council had not adopted a 1999 budget he submitted last September until June 1, a month before the end of the fiscal year, which delayed the collection of taxes. Councilman Mark Scotland, the chairman of the Council's finance committee, said the Mayor had failed to make layoffs he proposed last fall.
But Councilwoman Beverly Williams said she was embarrassed by the state's move. "It's a sad day in East Orange," she said.
Officials agreed that there were several deep-seated problems in East Orange, a city of 73,000 people next to Newark, that will be difficult to solve even with state supervision. Those include high unemployment and a shrinking tax base.
Robert Baily, a professor of public policy at Rutgers University, said he feared that tensions might develop between the financial watchdogs of the overwhelmingly white Republican administration of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman and the overwhelmingly black Democratic officials of East Orange. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (81%); MAYOR&COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (81%); MAYOR&COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST ORANGE (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); TAKEOVERS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (67%); LAYOFFS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); 

PERSON: ULRICH STEINBERG (56%); ROBERT BOWSER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999



675 of 675 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 30, 1999

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Beatty Makes No Declaration

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: BEVERLY HILLS, Calif., Sept. 29

 BODY:
In a discursive, sometimes impassioned half-hour speech to the Hollywood A-list and liberal advocates, Warren Beatty tonight denounced the conservative drift of the Democratic Party, the rise of corporate greed, the influence of big-money campaign contributions, lingering poverty and social injustice. And he suggested that he would "keep talking" about them loud and long.
But Mr. Beatty did not come close to declaring his own candidacy for President, as some of his supporters among the disaffectedof both major parties had hoped he might do. 
 Calling himself "an old-time, unrepentent, bleeding-heart, tax-and-spend" liberal, Mr. Beatty said, "We don't need a third party, we need a second party."
Mr. Beatty made his speech in accepting the annual Eleanor Roosevelt Award of the Southern California chapter of Americans for Democratic Action. Sometimes speaking off the cuff, with humorous asides to his celebrity friends in the audience, and sometimes rattling off reams of statistics about economic inequality, he seemed by turns confident and fidgety.
Mr. Beatty described both contenders for the Democratic Presidential nomination, Vice President Al Gore and former Senator Bill Bradley, as worthy men of high character. But he demanded, "What is this insurgency of a centrist against a centrist all about?"
He added, "What we're in danger of experiencing is a slow-motion coup d'etat of big money's interest over the public interest." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (56%); AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (56%); AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (65%); COUPS (65%); 

PERSON: BEATTY, WARREN AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999

 
